This is Jockel Podcast number 47.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willick.
Good evening, I go.
Good evening.
And I went a little along with a couple of reviews.
We've done some interviews.
We interviewed JP De Nell and I got a ton of really solid books that I'm reading.
I'm learning a lot from all of them.
And just getting a lot out of those books that I'm reading about.
War.
And about leadership and about human nature and about life.
But kind of failed to answer questions for the last few podcasts.
Questions from the interwebs from everybody out there that's listening.
And the question has been piling up.
So tonight we're going to simply dive into some questions from you all out there.
So let's get right to it.
Echo Charles.
If question number one.
What has gotten?
Jockel.
Do you think that most MMA fighters have what it takes to be seals the mental and physical,
the brutal wake cut, the brutal fight camp and stepping into a cage with a train and a
lead opponent?
Well, this is one of those questions where you might think there's like a really definitive
answer.
But there isn't really some MMA fighters could definitely be great seals for sure.
Some of them actually wouldn't stand a chance.
That seals.
And there's a lot of things that make people quit and not want to be seals or quit during
seal training.
You know, you got the water.
Some people don't like the water.
Some people are uncomfortable in the water.
Great athletes, not good in the water.
Some people don't like the cold and they can understand and take all kinds of punishment
of physical nature.
But they don't like the cold.
Some people don't like heights.
You get to the top of a 40 or 50 foot cargo net and you've got to climb over that little
pole at the top, get to the other side.
Some people don't like that.
Some people can't do some simple stuff like memorize.
You can't memorize certain facts.
There is an intellectual level that you have to have.
Some people aren't situationally aware.
So some of these like, for instance, you know, you have certain MMA fighters who are
real wild and it's one of their good characteristics is that they're kind of out of control.
They help some do wild things and fight unexpected things.
You can't be like that in the kill house would go and live fire.
You can't have that.
Why you need to be able to suppress that.
Some people can't suppress that.
So what you end up with someone is someone that's going to have safety issues because they're
too instinctual and they can't get those instincts under control.
Some people might have too much endurance but not enough strength.
Some people might have too much strength and not enough endurance.
Some people are injury prone.
Some people are just injury prone and it's not their fault many cases, but they are.
And then you take, so that's sort of the things that it takes to be in the seal teams
that would could hold up or trip up somebody that's just standard MMA fighter.
Now the same thing is true with seals that would be MMA fighters, right?
Or could seal potentially be MMA fighters?
And there's been a few seals that have fought really well and good fighters and all that.
But to make a blanket statement, there's going to be things that trip people look.
And for instance, some guys in the seal teams that they're not the best athlete, their athletic
ability is not as high as it might need to be to be a true competitor in MMA.
Whether that's they don't have the explosiveness or they don't have the coordination of the
flexibility.
There's something that's going to make them not competitive.
And normally those guys, sometimes they might not be the best seals.
But some of those guys are smart.
And so the reason that they're good seals is because they're just they're just tactically
sound in order to really good leaders.
They're never going to beat people on the range shooting because they're just not that coordinated.
I have the hand eye coordination.
But they're good seals anyways.
But when you put them in a purely physical competition like MMA, I shouldn't say, most
a more physical on physical competition like MMA, they're not going to do well.
And of course, obviously there's a skill set, right?
MMA fighters train MMA all the time.
That's what they do.
They train you just to a boxing and wrestling and mojtai and judo.
And seals also train all the time.
But guess what?
When you're in a sealed team, you're not just training just fighting, right?
You're training shooting and you're training tactics and you're training patrolling and
land navigation and parachuteing and combat diving and fast-robing and repelling and water
and born operations and all this stuff.
And then on top of all that stuff, which is the stuff that you actually really need to
train, then they put on a level of mixed martial arts training to make sure that if you are
for whatever reason without a weapon or if you need to handle somebody that doesn't have
a weapon and so therefore you might not be in the right to just shoot them and kill them.
You've got to be able to handle yourself.
So there's some level of MMA training, some fundamental judo skills, some fundamental striking
skills, some fundamental wrestling skills that seals get but it's not at the level of
what a real MMA fighters can have.
So with all that, I think there's a good percentage of MMA fighters that would make it
through seal training and be good seals and there's a good number of seals that would
probably make really good solid MMA fighters if they chose to do that and focus their lives
on it because there are some common traits with both of them, both of them take hard
work, both of them take some level of physical suffering, grind.
Both, I mean, you've been around when we're running MMA camps for people, it's a grind.
It's a grind.
It's a day in the out grind.
Now there's some luxury to that grind.
There's some luxury to that grind because when you're in an MMA camp, yeah, you work hard
as hell from seven in the morning till nine o'clock, doing your strength and conditioning.
Then you're going to go home, get a massage and thinning your fat and a lot of gotten
a good food that a lot.
You're going to sit down and relax, and then at eleven o'clock and you're going again and
you'll get your grappling training and you can train really hard for an hour or maybe
an hour and a half to get through to схloids, getting whaton out, and then you're gonna
go eat some munch, select relax, you're going to go back home and wait that to play
So there's some luxury to the MMA in the SEAL teams. There's not that those
It's not happening. You're just getting ground down when you're going through the basic training and when you're going through
You know the advanced work-up training. You're you're just getting beat down all the time. It's it's a grind
But both of them are agrind and
That's why I think though the work ethic that comes with a really good seal or a really good MMA fighter
There's a very strong similarity there and the ability to take that grind is
Is what I think that that intrinsic discipline is what would make
The crossover occur so that would make a seal into a good MMA fighter or an MMA fighter into a good seal or a good special operations guy
Yeah, and in this I'm the crossover
Ultimately just he says kind of hard to identify it overall this real general
Because like an MMA fighter is training sure he's training to be a better MMA fighter in general, but
Mainly is training for an event. So nose. Okay
It's gonna be this many rounds. It's gonna be this long per round. I'm gonna get this much rest for this round and I'm training to win that
Real specific so the training is
If it's good training, it's gonna best train him to function in that event and give him a
Paramount. Yeah combat maybe it's not like that
You know a great example this is Tim Kennedy right Tim Kennedy's a green beret special forces guy and he's his complete beast
You know and
He's a great example of a guy that has the commitment to discipline the dedication to be a special forces guy
And that translates right into how he works out and trains for fights. That guy trains like a madman for fights
And I think that's a great example of somebody not only can do one to the other. He does both
You know real time. He's in it. He's fighting November 15th right against Rashad evidence
So good on him and I actually have like another follow-on question to this which is in the same arena
Who would win yeah who would win and a fight between a UFC fighter and a seal team member
And I'll just go ahead and broaden that out to make it like you know a special operation guy because
People put special operations
personnel onto a pedestal of
You know totally being able to kick everyone's ass which is
Well
Did this to answer the question in its simplest form if the if there was a fight and
It's mixed martial arts competition so like in a cage what you were just talking about with a referee and
That's the way it's gonna be and there's five-minute rounds and there's five-five-minute rounds
And we're gonna see who's gonna win this fight barring a massive weight difference
and and
a rare
Special operations guy that has a high level of training
If you take 175 pound special operations guy
That just trained like a normal special operation guy has doesn't have any specialties
We're not talking Tim Kennedy. We're not talking to these guys that actually are committed and getting into it
and trained outside the actual discipline of their job if it's just a normal run of the mill
Guy from the special operations community a
Game-state professional UFC fighter in the same weight class
It's the UFC fighters gonna win
That's those are the facts and
Again, that's an occasion and I know this because you know what I've trained with a lot of
Really high level UFC fighters and I mean I've trained with with Randy and T-Doh
And I've trained with Brandon Verra and
With Quentin rampage Jackson and I've trained with Dan Henderson and
In my fact of training with bisming to stop trained with a lot of these guys, you know none of them
At a like all the time all the brand of air and I used to try to get all the time
but
And he's awesome
But I trained with those guys, you know, I trained with those guys and you know not to mention being being listed
I've been trained with forever so I've trained and when I trained with those guys and majority of the time
I would train grappling specific so
We wouldn't be just doing straight MMA
So we're training in an arena. That's geared towards me. You know some somewhere that I'm actually
Good at right have been trained in just over 20 years and so
When I go in the cage with those guys or when I've trained with those guys
I'm competitive with them, you know, so you know, we have good training right? We're or it's not like
Yeah, we have good training. It's good competitive training with all those guys
But I've been training this stuff for a long time
So my magical special operations powers they I know what they are and they're not real
You're gonna you have to learn how to fight to be able to hang with these guys and if you don't know how to train if I put you know
Because I when I train with a regular, you know, got a seal that doesn't train of course
You it's jujitsu you freaking destroy them. They have no chance
So
When if you take a guy that's just a normal guy that doesn't train they're gonna get their ass beat just like any other
You need to get no magical powers. Will you be tough sure?
Will it you know, and this is good like you know you take your average seal and you start teaching or jujitsu
They're great training partners because they're strong they have great endurance they go freaking hard
Yeah, they don't quit they don't give up they'll keep training with you until they don't tap easy
So yeah, they're great training partners and the more you teach them the better they're gonna get and they're gonna learn
Quickly because they're gonna be focused on it. So that's all good
But the fact of matter is you take a skilled
And I don't you know, you take a skilled UFC fighter and it doesn't matter that you were a quote unquote
You know Navy seal or special operations guy that's
That's just not gonna happen so
Now the the other kind of thing on this is
If you take both people now out of the cage and you put them into a
Survival type situation now the the special operations person's gonna have a much better chance
Because they're first of all they're gonna be all the they're gonna try and avoid the bad situation if they can and if they do
Have the fight they are much more likely to use some kind of a
Improvised weapon to do some kind of sneak attack to have back up right in the form of other guys that you didn't realize
We're with him and all of a sudden you're getting hit in the head of the bottle
It's the professional fighter of course has a huge advantage, but
There will be there is some
When you get out of the cage and there's no referee there's there's some things that you know your average special operations guys
It's gonna be thinking about that your normal
Person wouldn't be thinking about in these situations
So
You know that's why I said you know just in general first of all don't get any street fights. It's not smart doesn't get you anywhere
And you see guys that are in the military just in general they kind of have a
Another little level that they might take things to right and that's that's you know
You think you're getting a little fist fight right you think all the I'm gonna bomb's gonna little fist fight with this person
The next thing you know someone's biting off your nose
Right or someone's ripping off your ear or someone's sticking to fork in your eye because that's the kind of thing like that's the kind of thing that
You take one of these people who's trained and that has a little switch in their head that they go
Oh, I'm gonna I'm gonna combat scenario right now with this guys attacking me and I'm gonna chew off as I'm gonna chew off his nose
I'm gonna rip off his ear or I'm gonna gouge out his eyes. I'm gonna do it right now as fast as I can so that's why
You know just
You've got to use caution and I got actually one of my one of my buddies back in the day
There was we were in a bar and
Some guy was getting cocky and said something to a girl and
And you know he knew the girl and blah blah blah and there was whatever situation so
My buddies like hey
Hey, can you go ahead and apologize that girl? You know because that wasn't cool. He said it all nice like yeah, like just all my yeah and the guys you know
What he says he oh hey no no problem. I just you said something to the girl over there
You see her yeah with the with the red shirt on yeah
You said something to her and it was kind of offensive so if you could just go you know apologize to her then
You know we're all good here and and it is what we mean we're all good
No, I mean if you can just apologize to her then we're all good and
You know the guy says something like
You know what are you gonna do about and as he's finishing those words
The guy was smoking a cigarette as he's finishing those words
My buddy in a millisecond in a nano second like faster than you can snap your fingers
He snatches the cigarette out of the guy's mouth and shoves it with
Absolute laser target precision up the guys knows a burning cigarette
So this dude just and he put it you put in their deep. I don't even know how he did it
Like a ninja move. Oh, it's up there
The dude collapses. I mean can you imagine?
You know, I mean you've seen people like put a cigarette out on the wrong or whatever leaves a scar for the rest of the life
Yeah, he shoved the cigarette the burning cigarette up the guys knows the guy collapses to the ground and just like screaming and
I mean just completely defenseless so that's the kind of thing
Maybe that guy was a tough guy maybe that guy was thinking oh, I'm a boxer or
Whatever this guy might have been I don't even know because the fight was over before it even started because the guy had a burning cigarette
Jammed up in his nasal cavity in a split second fights over
That's the kind of thing
That let's be friends with each other. Let's just try and treat each other with respect out there
So we're not get into fights because I got a bunch of stories like that and they don't end well
You know they don't end well and
Yeah, that's kind of like
Like special operations guys that's kind of and I'm not that guy that you're talking about special operations guy right
That's just those just the guy that did they were up the nose. Oh, no
He's a seal oh yeah, he went this was this was years ago
Many many years ago and yeah, he did it just like that and that's the kind of thing like again the guy that he's talking to
Things he's a tough guy. Yeah, things. Oh, I'm a tough guy who else is what's this little
You know guy talking to me talking smack telling me apologize. I don't have to apologize anybody
And this was also pre MMA days, but you know maybe the guys are boxer maybe the guys are wrestler
He may maybe it might be a tough guy
But I guess apparently when you get a burning cigarette shoved up your nose. You're not tough anymore. Just goes over like that
Yeah, even I mean even better then as an example, he's where
First off if they guy you know how you how he said he's saying it all calm like I just go and apologize
That would have made me nervous right there like oh this guy's too anyway, but that's the side thing so
Like yeah, so a special operations guy
Compared to MMA guy. He's he's about every he's thinking beyond the fight
You think you straight up. This is a battle. So how can I win this book?
War you know MMA fighter is thinking like when we fight yeah, how am I gonna beat you up with all my skills and you will
Typically you will yeah, unless you have equal or better skills you're gonna get beat up
You're gonna get it up fight. Yeah, so
But the tactic like the other guy. He's thinking tactical. He's thinking okay, you know
He'll probably and according to the guys that I hang around with when they walk in a room
Just like a duet to guy when you when you when you
One of a person is presented to you. You're thinking you did to already you're thinking okay from here
Solid take down would come a special operation right guys thinking I could sick my pen in this guys. I really pan
There's the door and you know that you know, let's say let's say other guys just came in
Okay, so I got five guys he has like eight before any fight no fight no nothing. This is just the way
You know the way that kind of the mine works and then so yeah if and he's planning like the you're guy
He had that planner any you know
It's not like he was like oh I'm just gonna attack and that just kind of came about
Being during the process of attacking new like okay he has cigarette that's part of my plan my tactic, you know
So yeah when you go outside it's just a fight no too like you think about you know the
Applegate wrecks apagate the whole idea of of
Self defense being close motor movements instead of fine motor movements so if you ever look at some of the old school
Unarmed combat from the military
It's all based on this idea that when you get in a fight you want to do these big gross motor skills
In other words just giant movements with your fist and with your legs
So there's no really fine motor skills because when your adrenaline's pumping in your in this fight
You're gonna make little mistakes imagine the fine motor skills it takes to grab a cigarette and shove it up someone's nose in a split second
No, yeah, you know, there's another story and I don't know why Tim Tim Kennedy and I we talked about it before we came on the podcast
And we didn't get to it. Maybe we'll talk about it next time because we review the whole story. It's a great story
As you know he trained at the pit in San Luis Obispo for a while and
Seals used to do training up there and
one night and all the guys that trained with Tim at the time
They all used to work as bouncer and these guys are pro you
Say I wish I could remember the names of the crew, but it's basically the old school
San Luis Obispo pit crew right so it's gonna say again McGee Tim Kennedy chuckle a bell that
crew right those guys before you know the UFC was big those guys all worked as bouncer in San Luis Obispo
So some seals were doing some training up in the area they went out and down
Got into a fight and they the the guys got their ass good as seals got their ass kicked pretty much by and and it was you know
Tim and I were laughing about it because again
This is before the UFC was really popular and they got do a fight and of course not only is it a bunch of
UFC or at least high level MMA guys that are working as bouncer so they're sober
Fighting against a bunch of drunk team guys and it was funny because I they said you know because these seals got their ass
As kicked and they're kind of like came back like oh man or these bouncer's were tough and then I go
What where was it and they're like San Luis Obispo and then somehow through the grapevine through the MMA grapevine
There somebody told me back hey, jockel those guys that got it was these guys from the pit yeah, I was like oh, okay
I know that story by the way because
What a guy he was a new guy. He was yeah, I'm not saying yeah, I think he's still in yeah, I'm saying it's name, but he
Man, I'm doing the cake nuts, you know they come by and all the that's how I met J. Pete kind of the same way
Yeah, but um and but he would always come in the club that I worked at and so we kind of became friends, you know
So after we're done we're eating at the same spot. Yeah, he's like yeah, man for chuckle it
El beat me. Yeah
Like we're you know beat him down, but we got in a fight and chuckle it El beat me
You know like hit him and you've come down and I actually yeah, that's what happened
So that was a classic example and by the way, you know, I'll say something about while we're talking about chuckle it
Chuck when Chuck's always been like awesome to vets especially wounded vets so chuckle Dell
Hey, if he's bouncing at a bar and you're a vet and you get out of line you're gonna get you're gonna get put down
But if you're a if you're a warrior
That always impressed me about Chuck was he he did some great stuff for the for the troops have been wounded overseas and then always
Give me a lot of respect for him, you know even more respect than I have for him is being a great fighter
But anyways that kind of answers the question and so my overall broad
guidance here is
Train hard to do battle but do your battles in the gym not in the street
Yeah, it's only gonna get you either put in jail or put in the hospital or both
So
Yeah, remember this guy we trained with got his ear bit off remember
Yeah, Igor with you
Yeah, what's he a Navy Silver is he he he got out? Yes, yes, yeah, he got into a street fight
Yeah, and I mean he he he he kicked the guys ass, right?
He actually I think he more tyklens than put him down the ground got cross side yeah was
Kind of putting the put in the beat down on this guy and the dude just bit big chunk was it big
A chunk of his ear right bigger than the chunk that
Bigger than chunk that Mike Tyson did out. I mean he was a big chunk. I mean he's his ears
Clearly has a bite taken out of it like if you took a bite a big nice solid bite out of a piece of pizza
That's what his ear looks like
No, and you know, oh cool. You won the fight
Yeah, but you have no ear left
So that's a bummer and that's another thing that's another point to that
Is that
Sometimes these self defense type people
Good think that you know, oh well, I'll go dries out and that's the indication that I just kind of gave to that
Hey, the Navy seal Mike do something tricky to you well the bottom line is that stuff is a lot of times doesn't work
And then that's a perfect case the guy bit is you're often things. Oh the guys gonna give up no
It's not given up he beat that means he wouldn't even harbor
Well, like that means oh now you got a guy across the side that's about to ruin your shoulder for the rest of your life of the community or then put you sleeping
Yeah, it's just a bad situation so you can't just another thing about those
Those
Thinking that you don't need to train because you're gonna do an engine mover. You're gonna shove a cigarette at some guys knows no wrong answer or you're gonna bite the rear off
And you're gonna know that's not it's not true. You need to train so that you can get in those positions
And that you won't lose these fights and also you need to train so you don't have to get in fights
Because most of the time when you're getting the fights because your ego's getting out of control and you can't
You can't handle it in your little brain you get all yeah get all insecure about who you are as a man
So you think I'm gonna kick this guy's ass and then you're either getting your ass kicked
You're getting put in the hospital or you're going to jail or you got a big lawsuit against you so
Be smart
Hey remember I'm blood support when he was like
You know the coin you watch below remember blessed that the guy with a coin and he's like hey
You know whatever I'm gonna if I can grab it before you close your hand and the girl had something to do with it
He grabs it he closed in he's like, oh, you know, I still feel the coin in my hand kind of thing
He looks he switched the coin that's kind of what your friend did with a cigarette when he shoved it in the guy's sinus cavity
Because it's like super fast, you know, but precise, but you can't count on that move
That's my point. No, all right
Kick it off
Let's go to question number two
Jockel what if I don't have time to explain the why to my troops for a decision I'm making during an operation
U.S. Army first lieutenant so
Awesome thanks for your service U.S. Army first lieutenant get some
and
I
Talk about
Troops and people in general never wanting a plan to be
In post upon them and so that's that's what this question is kind of based around because I'm gonna send it up
You know, you don't want to just force people to do some plan you want to say hey
What do you think you should do and hey here's here's what we're doing and here's why we're doing it
This is why it's important that gets people to take ownership of it and therefore they do a better job
So he must have heard me say that now he's saying look sometimes I ain't got time to be
to be explained in the why when we're getting this going on and that's why this idea of explaining the why is
To 99% of the time in an administrative situation in a situation where things are in a control
We've got time to think about what's happening
That's when you can go and say hey, what's your what you you know what do you think how do you think we should do this
This is why I want to accomplish this. This is the commanders intent you can do it all that stuff and that makes sense again in a
Administrative situation when there's chaos and when there's mayhem and when there's uncertainty actually the opposite is true
You actually want your troops to
You that they want they want to see and
hear
Clear directives from you they want to know what they should do in no one certain terms and it's
You can think of situations where if you've seen let's say a car accident right and you see people that are kind of frazzled
If someone steps up into that situation don't want to do anything that they're supposed to be doing if someone says
Stop someone says you too start dragging that person over there you go call 911
They actually teach that you know when you when you're learning about how to handle
Traumatic situations somebody needs to step up step back take charge of the situation everybody wants that to happen and that's true
in a
Combat scenario again. This is different from when we're in the rear and we're we're
Formulating a plan and we're safely going over whatever ideas we have and that's when you want to get impot input and feedback
And you let your subordinate leadership come up with a plan. That's all good
But that's not true during a like I said during a pressure situation when there's a
Critical scenario unfolding people want to be led now
When you lead them in those situations you can still give orders by commanders intent
You can still just give intent so an example that and actually wrote my example down you can say like
Delta one six we need high ground on the other side of that road make it happen
So then the Delta one six commander goes okay. I need high ground on the other side of the road
There's a good building looks like that's when we could take hey, you know
Squat come with me and they go over and take down the building. I gave them a still gave them commanders intent
I gave them very clear commanders intent. I didn't really tell them why I
Didn't say hey, what do you think would be best? Do you think it's a good idea to get high ground? No?
I said go get high ground on the other side of the street. That's what I told them to do
So I'm gonna let them figure out they understand what the intent is you could say something a little bit more specific
You could give them an actual
An actual directive you could say
Charlie one six gig take two squads assault building 34 on the other side of the road get high ground on the rooftop go
Now we have something it's more specific
Again, it's not commanders intent. It's directly. I'm telling you what to do and a lot of times people gonna want that
They're gonna want to hear exactly what to do in these presses situations
So depending on the level of
Experience that your subordinate leadership has depends on maybe how specific you're gonna get with just given commanders intent versus giving something very specific to do
Both of those are the right answers if you have a good really good leader underneath you and you can just give him the intent
And even let them come up with the plant cool go with that if you got somebody that needs a little more guidance give them a little bit more specific guidance
Now obviously one part of that is you got to have trust
You got to have trust with the with the subordinate leadership with that you're working with whether that's you working with your whole
Poutine and you just got to trust your your squad leaders and your your fire team leaders
But you got to build that trust through
through training and through
Hard training through coaching them and mentoring and again
Again, I hate using the word coaching and mentoring because that always gives an air of superiority
And I'm not gonna want to come off across as superior to other people
Hmm, well, why do I not want to come off as superior to other people?
Well number one because it it
Unifies our team more and number two because I'm not superior to other people
Right, I'm another person and my subordinates even though they might not have as much time and rank or
Experiences me they still might have great ideas and I respect that so this isn't a
Hey, I don't want to use coach or mentor because I'm manipulating them and I want to make sure that they
That they listen to me because I'm being a certain way with them. No. No. I legitimately
Respect what they're saying. That's the difference here. So
But that's but my goal is to build trust and the other way that you build trust and I've said this before is my giving trust
You know hey, I trust that you can do this. Hey echo you're gonna go take down the building
I trust your playing come up with it make it happen boom you could do it you trust me more when I trust you
You trust me and that's what we want to do
Now when the operation is over and
And now you're in a post operational debrief then you can discuss why you gave a certain order or you can get feedback from them on a why they
Executed a certain way and you can get the questions going back and forth and through that little question and answer
Period that takes place during a post operational debrief. We get to know each other more
We build more trust and we become better as a team
So that's the way it works
You don't always have time to explain why pressure situations you lead
That trust thing is big
Next question next question. I like it where we got
What advice do you have for those who have weak poor or otherwise ineffective leaders?
How do you manipulate that situation?
Hmm so again I think I may have actually answered this question before
But I'll answer to get sure
When
When you are in a situation like this when you got somebody that's weak or ineffective leader or a poor leader
The answer is always the same which usually lead
You lead yourself and I hope people that listen to podcast all in the regular
You all knew what I was gonna say there you all know that when
Someone is not leading you
Then you lead them you pick up the slack for the weakness
My leaders want to come up with a plan cool. I will
My leader doesn't want to give a brief. That's fine. I will
My leader doesn't want to mentor the younger troops. That's okay. I will do it
Leaders doesn't want to take the blame when something goes wrong. That's fine with me. I'm gonna take the blame
And you think about that one that one can be tricky because you think we're home and look bad in front of the
In front of the more senior boss. Now think about it from the senior boss's position
If if you work for me echo and the boss comes in and we the mission was a failure and I'm the I'm the guy that's in charge
And I say sorry boss we failed it was echo as fault
And echo goes hey sir, it was my fault. Here's what happened here's the mistakes I made and here's what I'm gonna do to fix it next time
Who do you respect more? Yeah, of course. I'm looking to promote you. You know I actually want to promote you
You want to fire myself for being a guy that's passing the buck and passing a responsibility or not taking ownership of anything
So imagine what that looks like before you get all intimidated by taking the blame for something and think you're gonna look bad and think you're gonna get fired
Think about what it looks like from the senior perspective and you actually have to imagine what it will look like
Underneath you you have to see it from your perspective because it's even when you think about their perspective
You still can be in fear of it. You think oh I'm the guy that's taking the blame. I'm the one that's gonna get fired
No and and am I saying this like blanket
That there's sometimes where if the boss screws something up really bad like let's say it was something like classified
Information got left out and it was your boss that literally left it out and you go no it was me
Well first of all you're not telling the truth right so you're not telling the truth and the person made a mistake
That's and that there's no excuse for you so that's not a situation that I'm talking about and
If your boss was the type of person that said yes, I'm gonna put the blame on him
I would burn them alive like actually here's what really happened so
I'm not talking about that type of situation
But when you're doing an operational thing where there's mistakes it get made and your boss is scared to take ownership of them take ownership of
Not that it you will win in the long run
Now here's the part that is
Crucial and critical and the most challenging part of this and that is when you step up and lead
You want to make sure you aren't stepping up and stepping on
Your leader you don't want to step into their little spotlight you don't want to
Impose yourself in their
Leadership line light and glory you don't want to do that you you can't do that
You want them to get the credit you don't want to have them be intimidated by you in any way and this is hard
Because when you start taking ownership for stuff
It's very it can be very
Intimidating for the person that's above you because they think dang this guy just he's just a bold bastard
Then stepping up and taking charge of stuff and they might get intimidated that so so what you have to do is you have to do some some indirect
Manuver warfare here and
For instance if they don't
Want to if they don't want to come up with a plan maybe you start saying hey sir, what do you think of this would this be a good plan and
Maybe if you're if they're not mentoring the younger guys maybe say hey, you know what I want to do this
I want to spend some time with the guys after work
Do you mind if I have a little session with them kind of go over what we learned on last appointed or?
Hey about this new regulatory thing that's come out in the business world and I want to get our younger troops to know it
Do you mind if I teach you class on that so you're you're asking them permission and you might even say you know
Hey, I think it would look really good for you too if we were doing this
Do you want to make them look good
And
Those are the ways that you do that you step up and lead
But make sure you're not stepping on your leader because that that could backfire
And you could end up in a situation where they feel intimidated and you're getting put in the dog house
Or fire or demoted or in trouble because they feel intimidated by you so use caution if you have a good leader
Some leaders just aren't that aggressive and when you start getting aggressive they start
They
Actually like the fact that you're getting aggressive and they like I mean I work for some people that love the fact that I would take step up and take charge
They had no problem with it because they were good confident leaders
It's the insecure leader you have to watch out for the insecure leader that's worried about looking bad
And that's another
To change perspective again on this when you as a leader have somebody that's stepping up and taking charge
As and you start feeling intimidated by it ask yourself why it's probably your ego
You're being a weak leader by being intimidated by your subordinates if your subordinate is doing your job and doing it better than you
Let get step up and start looking how can you go up the chain of command? How can you look up and out?
How what other areas can you focus on since that leader has stepped up and has making things happen? That's awesome
That is awesome. We want that
That's decentralized command. That's building other leaders underneath you which is what your goal as a leader should always be
And I'll tell you every time I see some of that goes oh I got a weak leader
I'm always like lucky you
Yeah lucky you take advantage of that take advantage of it do whatever you want
I mean you have such an odd good opportunity when you have a weak leader above you don't look at that don't don't get all down
Trotten because bad boy leader just doesn't motivate you awesome motivate yourself
Get charred getting charge of things take advantage of it make things happen. It's awesome to have a weak leader
I love it get after it. It's good to give me so much mobility in my in my in my
Job right I'm so much more mobility than if I've got someone hey if I got someone that's strongly
That's great too, but weak leaders no factor. I'm gonna take advantage of it. Yeah feel like you
Yes, I would
You're like you got a weak leader and you're kind of
You're not stepping up you're essentially
Allowing the group the team objectives to kind of fail in a way you're kind of allowing it and then in a way too deep into what you do
but
In a way you're kind of being like hey
All right you're allowing the excuse to be valid, you know, where which kind of makes it invalid really when you're like hey
I could step up, but hey, it's the leaders for as long as it's not my fault. You know the my leaders nothing
You know it's you're really not taking much ownership
Yeah, you just point your finger at your leader and say this is a weak leader. Yeah. That's not what we do here
Not what we do at all. Yeah, and the times where I've had weak leaders
I always took advantage of it like I said one time and I've talked about this on the podcast before we fired our leader
You know, we had a little mutiny that only happened once for me, but yeah, it happens that I mean
I obviously I don't know the all the details of that, but in a way isn't that you just stepping up and making it happen
I mean, yeah, it's really the
They're they're depending a result like dang that's that's kind of where we're gonna arrive at really giving us stepping up if that's how it goes down
That's how it goes down, but you stepped up. You saw the problem if there's a problem and that was a problem. There's your solution
I think yes up and down the chain of command. You got to own it for sure
Jaco
Jaco did you do anything ritualistically to get yourself mentally prepared?
focused and
In the proper mindset
So just before carrying out a mission such as self-talk music or other actions
Read up pre-operation
Preparedness for the mental state so
People ask this and it's and it actually sounds like a pretty cool question, right?
I mean, it sounds like a pretty cool question. I'm sure people wonder that
It's a lot of times because
You think seals and soldiers and marines must have some
Kind of deep and incredibly
Meaning full border line religious ceremony that they go to and through in order to prepare
Their mind for combat
Maybe it's a
Maybe it's a meditation on the warrior code or
Maybe it's an aggressive song to peek your adrenaline
Maybe it's a a breathing exercise. We got a special breathing exercise. That's gonna heighten my mental awareness and there's even
Seals and I use that turn loosely that have written
Books on that subject of you know this this warrior
Mind said in the the Navy seal breathing techniques and the the visualization and things like that
No
I
I hate to spoil the romantic vision of the
Mind for warrior poet, but that actually
That that idea just it does not what happens and
Here's the reality
First and foremost when you are
In combat and you're preparing for an operation you are freaking busy
You are busy you are planning you're doing coordination
You're doing gear prep you're doing briefings you're making all these adjustments and changes to everything that's happening
You don't we are scrambling around us talking to leave the other day and and there was almost the time
If we were going on in the field on an operation we wouldn't be sleeping for 24 hours before we went in the field
You know, maybe we get two or three hours, but it was a sleep deprivation before we went in the field
Because of all the planning and preparation that needed to be done especially on the big operations with battalion sized or or brigade sized operations
There's so much planning and preparation that needs to be done that you don't have you you're not just
You're not just sitting around figuring out what kind of mental prep you're gonna do
There's just last minute detail
There's a phone call you got a place to hire headquarters. There's a a decant fish and document that you got to prepare you got to
You got to get stuff done so taking some
Some kind of meditative moments to get in the right mindset
It's just not happening. Just don't have the time for it now that being said
Mindset it is a part of combat right and so how did I get in the right mission mindset
Well the mindset is not achieved in the minutes or even hours
before an operation
From you know chanting a mantra or breathing or meditation or listening to some song that's gonna get you in touch with your warrior spirit
The mindset is achieved in the
the weeks and the months and the years
Before that specific operation commences, that's another thing
The the idea from that actually I was raised on in the 90s in the seal teams was like you were gonna do a mission
We used to joke about it called the big mesh right the big mission was gonna come
It was gonna be one mission
Right and you could get hey we're gonna plan for it
We're gonna plan for it for weeks maybe even months and we're gonna be able to visualize everything and we're gonna have all this time
The reality is overseas, you know since the war started man you're doing an operation every night
You're going out you got another week come back your plan and for that one and well and when that one gets canceled for whatever
Reason there's two more that you're planning for you're running out to grab intelligence your meet with somebody else
It's just constantly ongoing so we weren't ever preparing for one mission
We were planning we were preparing for mission after mission we'd have five six seven ten
We'd have ten operations in the hopper at any given time that we're planning and preparing for we're gathering in
Thousands for we're setting up we're doing route studies for four five different operations at one time
Then finding one rise of the occasion boom we're gonna go hit that one the next night another one's up the top
We're gonna go hit that one
So again this idea that I think came from the 90s of a we're gonna do the big mesh
Yeah, but we're gonna have to get in the mental mindset no we live the mental mindset
But that mindset came from the training that we went through the grueling training through the repetition of the fundamental skill sets
The mindset comes from the discipline
From waking up early from studying tactics from understanding the enemy
From all those
Unmedicated daily disciplines that's where the mindset comes with it comes from and I'll tell you on top of that on top of that
You have to come to grip
With some pretty horrific potential outcomes, right?
You have to accept some solemn possibilities like that you might be severely wounded or that you might be killed
And you also have to think that about the guys
Your your friends that is another possibility that you have to think about
But for yourself you
You have to accept that possibility you have to accept that potential outcome that
You could die and you have to accept that now you don't want it
Of course you want to live, but you have to accept the fact that in the game
the game of
Combat you could very well die and
I knew that and I was okay with it
But but I had come to that conclusion a long time before whenever
Operation I was getting the roll out on one particular night during a
Six month long deployment
So the mindset is built over time and
Like knowledge
That you have
The mindset it becomes so ingrained that knowledge becomes so ingrained that you don't have to
Cram for it like you'd cram for a final exam
You don't have to cram for the test to combat in the last minute you already know
You already have the conference you know you've done everything possible to prepare mentally to prepare physically to prepare emotionally
And then when the call comes
And you put on your camis and you fill up your canteens and you put on your helmet and you lock down your night vision
You lock and load your weapon to roll out the gate you're ready
You've seen the movie gone in 60 seconds no, I have no movies that you've seen
Not a statue
There's a part where they're but they're their car jackers team of
Car thieves they got to do this mission to save the brother
You know they're already tired. That's why but they gotta do you know this one that mission
So big mesh the big mission you have exactly so they go through a thing getting in a mindset drill
So check it out imagine if in the movie they were doing that mission every single night
Yeah, that's gonna not go through that drill every night because they know they've prepared
They know the got their mind right and they're gonna go out and execute the operation
That's the difference
Or maybe they would do it every night. This is what they do. Oh, that's here
Think put on low writer, you know the song
Hmm
Then they just kind of listen to it and then they go
Super subtle
Yeah, maybe check it out. Yeah, you know some guys you know crank up a song
You know we had speaker we actually had speakers outside some of those the guys we blasted some music
But it was no like a ritualistic thing where we all sat there close to rise and listen to the same song at the same time
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean and you know what I was
You know always either what my two combat deployments. I was a platoon commander. I was a task leader commander
So I was busy, you know, I was all that planning stuff that I'm talking about was was me if I was going out if I wasn't going out
Then I wasn't doing anything ritualistically to get ready to go out
But you're busy people understand how busy you are in combat not just while you're on the battlefield
But when you're back in the rear
Preparing to go or preparing or planning for operations. Yeah, oh, to imagine some people you know because even the small
I mean really how deep how far you want to stretch the word like ritual right so the I'm sure some people would right
Maybe like like I said get like a lucky thing or I don't know
Hey, people carried lots now you're getting a different realm here. Yeah, yeah, I'm super-stition
Well, you're also talking about so I had certain patterns that I followed right
But those patterns were not for my mental state they were to be prepared right it was kind of you know
I've talked about how I had to caught filled my gear and when I put all that gear on I was ready
You know, right that's that's that's and I put the gear on the same way every time because you're going through a
Process and a procedure so that you make sure you get anything right even when I'm coming to record the podcast
I do the same thing every time
I get this ready. I get that ready. I print the stuff out. I you know
I bring the same pens the same stupid pens. I bring them all time because I have a pattern that I go through said
I'm ready for what we're gonna do
That's a standard operating procedure to be ready for the operation
Whether it gets me to mental state
Yeah, I guess it does get a little mental stand technically that is a ritual well, then you can I guess I'm busted
There you know, no, no, no, no, no, no you're the man of course for sure you know busted
No, I think I am busted because that is definitely a a ritualistic
thing to go through and if I talk about
about being in combat, sure.
We, you're getting your gear on,
you're zero out, you're programming your radio,
you're getting radio checkers.
But again, the reason it doesn't really hit me
as a ritualistic thing, because those are standard procedures
that you're going to prepare for the mission.
They're physical things that have to be done.
They're not for mental preparation.
Now, does your mind know what's coming?
Yes, and I'll tell you a classic example
is when you put down your night vision,
which for those of you who don't understand this,
you have a helmet on, and you have night vision on it.
It can flip up where you're just looking through your regular eyes,
but then when you back out the vehicles
and you flip your night vision down,
you're in a different world.
You're in a green world of darkness
where you know what's about to year about to do.
So whenever I flip my night vision down,
it would always give me a sensation.
But again, it wasn't, this is preparing me.
I knew that it was time, right?
There's a difference.
There's a subtle difference?
No difference?
No, I'm sure there is a difference,
but there's overlap there where I think that is.
I mean, like I said, it depends how loose you wanna use the word
ritual, but technically, yeah, like remember you said one time,
you said something about before you guys rolled out.
Everyone starts there and it's the same time ritual.
Right there.
And ritual, however, standard operation features.
Yeah, it's a function.
Something like, well, you've got to put your night vision
goggles down.
You have to do that.
It's what you're gonna do.
And when you do that, because you've done it 100 times before,
you know that that's now game on.
But if you're just putting your night vision goggles down,
that's not really the ritual.
But if it's like, I'm gonna put my night vision goggles down
after I do this every single time, that's a ritual.
Or we all do it together.
Like when it's your, you're calling it a ritual.
You're putting a ritualistic flavor to it.
It's a standard operating procedure.
They can be processed.
They can put it on saying it's not ritualistic
because there was no embedded, deeper meaning
that was put on top of it purposely.
Right.
It's not very ceremonial.
We're trying to make it.
We're trying to make it in some of it's not.
Right.
Do you fall the same standard operating procedures?
Yes.
So do you, and when we talk about fighters,
you know, I've been with a lot of fighters and coach them.
And those guys have little ritualistic things to get
sometimes it is music, right?
Because they're gonna go fight a five minute round.
They're gonna listen to something or they're gonna,
they're gonna sit there and close their eyes
and think about what's important to them.
That's fine.
I'm telling you, when I was overseas,
I didn't have time to do any of that.
We were running around, never once did I say standby.
Hey, no one talked to me for the next three minutes.
Right.
Well, I get in the zone.
No.
I was in the zone because I spent my, you know,
did a workup, did you spent my time in the team
and went through training, you know, shot my gun,
knew what I was doing.
And so I didn't need to get in the zone.
And I think that's why I think I'm sensitive
to this and here's why I think I'm sensitive to this.
I think I'm sensitive to this
because I think people try and tell, tell people
or sell people on the fact that if you do these things,
it will prepare you mentally for, you know,
a pressure situation.
And that's what bothers me about it.
That's what bothers me about it is,
hey, if you do this, if you, this is what it is.
If you take this shortcut,
then you will be prepared because I would never tell someone,
oh, you want to fight an MMA fight.
You're going to get in the cage.
Cool. Here's what you need to do to train for that.
Three minutes before you enter the cage,
go into a room, shut your eyes and think about
how you're going to win the fight.
That is not true.
Now, this is, I guess this is where you've just,
you've just gotten this out of me,
echo, you took me to my point that I believe in, right?
Yeah.
That is not what prepares you for the fight.
What prepares you for the fight is the years
and years of training that you've done to get there.
The last three minutes, you can have a ritual
and it can put your mind in a right place,
but that's not what's putting your mind into the right place.
What's putting your mind in the right place
is the months and months and years of training,
same thing with on the battlefield.
If someone said, hey, I'm about to go execute
a direct action mission.
What should I do to prepare for that?
I wouldn't say, well, what you need to do,
is listen to your favorite motorhead song.
Yeah.
That is not going to help you.
What you need to do is you need to do this.
You need to go this shooting.
You need to work on these type of tactics.
You need to understand what to do
and someone gets when you need to have standard operating procedures
for how to go into and out of buildings.
You need to understand how to clear rooms
with open doors, closed doors, corner fed rooms.
All these different things that you need to know.
I would tell you all of that stuff.
But what I don't like is when someone says,
oh, what you need to do to be ready is do these?
Do this last fraction of the thing.
And that's what's going to prepare you for combat.
No, not true.
What prepares you for combat?
What prepares you for a fight?
What prepares you for a tough business decision?
What prepares you for a pressure scenario
that you're going into isn't the three minutes before.
That's the icing on the cake.
So I don't want to focus on that.
I want to focus on the daily disciplines for months
and weeks and years that led you up to the point
so that when I went in combat for the first time
and shot my gun for the first time,
it wasn't about the song that I listened to.
It wasn't about the breathing that I did.
It was the discipline and the training that got me there.
So maybe I was a little bit hard coming out
of the gate on this idea, but that's why I was hard.
And I didn't really understand that in my own mind
until you started bleeding me down this road.
Because that stuff does, when I see somebody trying to sell that,
I don't like that.
Yep, I don't like that.
Do I have rituals?
Yes, I am.
I even have rituals for when I get up in the morning.
And what I do, I feel my water bottle.
My water bottle every night, when I go to bed,
is in the same spot.
When I get up out of bed in the morning,
my water bottle is there.
I put my, you know, I go very quietly in the bathroom
when we talk about this, I do what I got to do in there.
I come out, I grab my water bottle.
It's already where I know it's gonna be
on any different learning lights.
It's where it's supposed to be.
That's a ritual.
I go to the kitchen, it's dark in the kitchen.
I fill up the water bottle by sound.
Because you know how that's a little beautiful sound
as it fills up, it gets higher and higher
than boom, you kill it.
Now I walk out, I flip on a light in the back of the house,
put the shoes on.
Because I'm not bothering anyone.
So there's a little ritual there.
When I walk up to the gym, plug in the music
and now it's time to get after it.
So there's a ritual there.
There's even when I go to the gym and do jjitsu,
I have a little ritual that I follow there.
I come in, I tape the fingers, I do what I got to do.
For those of you people that are gonna ask,
I tape the two fingers on my right hand,
my pinky and my ring finger on my right hand,
because my pinky's got a little judo finger, right?
So I tape those two together.
And also gives me a little bit of that friction
on the guillotine, at least that's why I've told Echo
to further intimidate and scare about the guillotine.
So there's some little ritualistic things there.
If Dean's there, when I'll go in the sauna for five minutes
and just get a little bit warm before,
and he sees me sweating, he doesn't like to see me sweating
because he knows that I'm, it's on.
It's on, right?
So I'll go in there just to send a little mental vibe
to Dean that you know what,
Joc was already sweating, he says, damn.
So those ritualistic things, those are the fraction,
the tiniest part of what you need to do to prepare.
The preparation, the mindset,
doesn't come from those things.
You wanna, you wanna close out that final bit
and make it something ritualistic
to get you in the right mindset, do it.
But that is not where the money is made.
The money is made and everything that leads up
to that was the final three minutes or two minutes
or five minutes of ritualistic behavior
that you have to get you ready to rock and roll.
So bring it.
What can we extrapolate there?
So the question is no, really?
I mean, you maintain really
because the question is,
do you do anything ritualistically
to get yourself mentally prepared focus
in proper mindset?
So you don't, but you do do things that are rituals.
But that's not the question.
This is one of the questions.
The rituals you're talking about in regards to,
oh, yeah, let's go.
What rituals did I have?
What rituals did I have in preparing for combat,
training my ass off, being prepared,
studying the enemy, being in crop physical condition,
those are the rituals, the rituals are the training.
And the rituals, like I said, for the 20th time,
that little tiny thing,
those are just standard operating procedures.
And when you do those ritualistically,
then you're, then you number one, you won't forget
everything.
You'll know that you have all your gear.
You'll know that you've done what you're supposed to do.
And when you put your night vision goggles down,
you'll know that it's on.
Straight.
And you'll be mentally prepared.
So your standard operating procedures
are rituals by technicality.
Sure.
There you go.
If for those of you that aren't watching this on YouTube,
Echo just looked extremely proud of the statement right there.
No, I wasn't friends.
By the way, I said, I'm proud of they are.
I'm proud that I had some influence on them.
I don't want to completely beat a dead horse.
Because, but what bothers me about that idea
is people thinking they can cut corners on the preparation.
You can't cut corners.
That's my point.
And think you're going to get the three minute preparation
to be ready for combat, to be ready for battle,
feel ready for pressure situation,
to be ready for a tough business decision.
You don't get ready for that in three minutes.
You get ready for that for months and years.
That's how you prepare for it.
Well, I was a youthful football at UH.
And we had this, I don't know if you're watching
like football.
I can't brag.
No, I'm laying down the set.
We already knew that though.
Oh, OK.
OK.
Anyway.
So I was a wider seever.
And for the drill, I'd receive her.
I was a lot smaller back then.
I was like 180, 180, whatever.
Nonetheless, one of the drills was this,
if you know football can't be on this,
it's like it's a motor on a big tripod.
And on the motor are these spinning tires.
And they spin this way.
There's three of them.
So they go on this weird skewed angle.
So basically you load a football from the back.
And you push it through.
And it shoots the ball like, yeah.
And there's different speeds and stuff like that.
So my coach, well, this is named Coach Miles.
My frigate of thousands first name or last name.
Anyway, Coach Miles, he wasn't a very nice coach.
So he would drill us with it, right?
Which is fine.
That part is cool because it's training.
But the part that I didn't think was very cool was
if you missed, there was you would pay a price.
Like you yell at you.
Some time, yeah, he'd make you run.
Like if you missed, it wasn't like, it was like,
to me, the punishment, it was wrong.
Like the system was wrong.
And punishment didn't fit the crime.
Well, yeah, it wasn't like, this isn't going to make you
better to put more pressure on this drill.
You know, it was more like, hey, look, hey,
but he wants to cause stress.
OK, OK, good, good.
I didn't feel that at the time.
And now, I mean, I'd have to think about it more.
I thought about it.
I bet your whole day's your viewpoint would be different.
Maybe, but maybe not though.
No, no, I don't think so.
Only because I think that you're trying to get the best out of these people,
you know, for a specific, but on the game day, there's
going to be a lot of pressure.
And you can actually get used to that stress by
an occupating yourself to it.
By him saying, look, you got to catch this ball.
You're going to pay the man.
Yeah, or just get better at catching.
So you can get it.
No, no, no.
So you can focus on getting better at taking stress or getting
better catching.
OK, and to give you this focusing on the game.
Now, what I would say is that he should have combined both of them.
And he should have given you guys ample time to just
practice the catching part.
And then later up the stress.
And then that would have been great if he did that.
In fact, he did not.
So back to the virtual mental preparation, whatever.
So that would be stressful for me as a young guy.
I was like 17 when I started football.
You know, late for anyway.
So I'm like one of the young guys and he'd end.
So when he'd do stuff like to make it harder and harder and harder.
So of course you're going to miss.
So there's this one where it's like ball.
And then you know, you just will turn around the balls on its way.
Full speed things.
Like it doesn't think I'm drawn hard.
Anyway, so you'd miss and then he'd get all mad.
So anyway, I'm stressed now.
Now every practice I'm going to stress about that one drill that we're going to do.
So before practice, we had this cool real nice facility.
There's this lounge where everyone just kind of cruising mellow out.
Because you know, from class to pre-practice prep and some meetings and then practice.
There's a little bit of downtime where you can melt out in the lounge.
So in the lounge, it closed my eyes a lot of the time and be like this.
Specialized that ball.
Only for the drill.
Not in the skirmish time.
Skirmish time no problem.
But I'm visually mentally preparing for the drill.
All right, this is just doesn't it's right.
Anyway.
So yeah, mentally, mentally,
visualizing the ball coming in at crazy speed.
And I'm catching him, I'm catching him all in my little visualization.
So I go and as time went on, I kept doing that over and over and over.
Did I help to drill at all?
Well, failed.
Like as far as any kind of effect, I would catch some,
yeah, miss some, get yelled at more stress next to any of them.
Much same thing.
Yeah, I would say this first of all,
visualization of a physical technique is proven to help.
So it didn't help in your case.
What I would have said would have been the most helpful for you is to say,
you know what, I don't care what this guy does to me.
Yeah, I don't care if I miss this ball and I'm a goather and have fun.
Yeah, you want to do something like a maniac.
Yeah, I'm going to have such a good time running down the field and when he calls ball,
I'm going to turn around and do my best to grab that thing.
If I don't grab it, I'm going to do 14 summer salts and I'm going to have a good time.
And so that would, you could take an impression off yourself because that's probably what was,
what was, uh, jamming you up as you like to say.
So this, and I'll say this too, back to this whole idea, right?
Another thing that, that I, that I've feel this sort of allergy to this type of thing is,
it's sort of like, uh, on the Tim Ferriss episode where I was just answering questions.
I'm going to ask about motivation and I said, like, motivation isn't isn't your friend, right?
Motivation is going to go up and down.
I feel like, you know, what's going to be good is discipline.
Discipline. And so there's really, that's the difference between what I'm talking about here.
Yeah. When we're talking about, hey, what do you do to get in a mindset? Well, that's really
talking about, you know, your mental mindset of motivation. No, but what I'm talking about is
discipline standard operating procedures that actually prepare you for what you're about to do.
Not that motivate you temporarily by listening to a good song or by doing some breathing
drill that gets you mentally, but no, the discipline is what's going to make you mentally
prepared for what's about to happen. So again, that's why I think I'm, I'm a little bit stuck in
a mud on this one and I'm trying to have an open mind, but I think those are the key components
for me. I don't like when people try and sell shortcuts on stuff and make it, you know, hey,
you'll be great if you do these three minutes. No, actually you won't. You need to do everything
out. You need to do the hard work. Yeah. And people buy into that. Why do they buy into that?
Because they want to take everyone wants to, they quick and easy, you know? I mean, people
listen to this podcast don't. Yeah. No. People that are here, we want to get in the game fully.
Yeah. Two hours. Two hours in a book. Yes. Yeah. No shortcuts. No shortcuts. So
I think that's the difference. There's people, some people sell that and there's too many
people that buy into it. When what they should be buying is, hey, hard work and dedication and
discipline is what's going to meant to be prepared for me. Not this other stuff. Yeah. At the end.
Yeah. So yeah. So really, like I said, the SLP by technicality, it's a ritual, but here's a
thing about it being only technically a ritual. Because if you take that away,
not necessarily the SLP because that has a full-on function, you know what?
To, I hate to cut you off just to talk about what we just, what we're talking about here, right?
Because because I said, hey, with the podcast and I've said this before, we have a ritual that
I do, you do it too. When I come, I brew the tea. I put my my pens in. I do the folder. I print
the stuff out. I have, I put the knives in the bag. I have a ritual that I go through. But to
case and point, case and point, that is not what prepares me for the, that's what happens. That is not
what prepares me for the recording. What prepares me for recording is what is spending 10 hours,
12 hours, 15 hours, diving into a book, looking upwards. I don't know, doing background studies on
battles that I don't understand that are mentioned all of a sudden, researching some general
that gets mentioned. That's what prepares me. That's what gets me in the mindset to record a podcast.
Not the ritual. The ritual doesn't actually mean anything without that core, deep preparation that's
done. That kind of settles our point here.
Yeah, I might know me very nicely. Yeah, I was going straight technical and you, I think you're
absolutely correct. And sometimes, because I would fall, especially when you're young, you're
like, just anything that'll help me, you know, like, do I did a time I shoes and the wrong,
like, superstition goes in there. You know, you know, that feeling where you're like,
dang, you're just stressed about something, so anything that'll help. And then after,
wow, you kind of go to your self, man, it doesn't matter what order I put my shoes on right now.
It doesn't matter what color my socks are, you know, you know, man, I used to have this thing where
I'd be stressed to go to school for whatever it is, like intermediate skin when you're like a
newsglue. It's just a little bit stressed, not full on, but still I was looking for little things.
So, is this weird that you've been thinking about it and I'm so weird. So, I'd have, you know,
music in your car on the tape. So, I liked Bushwick Bill, who's a rapper and get a boy. It's
anyway. No, I. So, and it had, you know, punch a swearing in it, but it was just a great, great
album. And I liked it. But I had it strangely in my mind, if I listen to like negative stuff,
I'd have a negative day. And some people might say, like, well, who's that's kind of true?
But no, I don't think so. I think it doesn't matter really what music you look. Maybe my certain
music might put you in a certain mood, but that's up to you. Yeah, we're actually going in a whole
of the direction, which I'm fine. We're going there. I have always found that music to me,
like the words in the music, I'm barely registering what they are. I know them. I'll be,
might even be singing along with them in my mind, but the words generally aren't having a huge
impact. I mean, I've listened to all kinds of rock and roll music throughout my years. If I would
follow a followed along with 10% of the lyrics, I would probably be a heroin addict in the other
somewhere, right? Because you can't just listen to music and obey what they say. And if you shouldn't
do that, most music is, a lot of music is negative, right? I mean, a lot of music is very negative
in what it's saying. So, yeah, that's what you're saying is the ritual of listening to the
right music is not important. No, not important at all. I'm just saying I used to like kind of,
I don't want to say fall for that trick, but I was young as an intermediate school. So you believe
it, you believe it. At the time, if you listen to negative music, you might have a negative negative
negative day. Yes, and not the kind, not the kind of where it's like, I'm going to listen to this
and then I choose to go, this will fire me up to do what it wasn't that. It was a superstition
is what it was. And I'm saying my point for the whole thing is you don't like how people like
basically hang their success or failure on some visualization or some ritual. Yes. And agree then,
that the point of making is, I would have to like remind myself of that. Like, man, the music,
like nothing bad is going to happen to me because I listen to Bushwick Bill talk about this thing.
I got you, that I will say this though. That is a conscious decision that you made,
you know, whereas if you were just listening, I mean, music changes your mood. Music changes my mood
for sure. Yeah. When I hear a certain music, I get a certain reaction to it and I will get into a certain
emotional state from listening to a song that's about something or not something else. You know,
that will have an effect on me. Now, I don't know that my point is that the lyrics themselves
don't really mean anything. I guess I guess if they do mean something though and they hit me a
certain way, music definitely will put you in a different mood in my opinion. Yeah. If you let it
like if you're using it, if you're using it, if you're using it, well, I would say put you in a mood
unless you don't don't let it, because if you just listen to it, now there's times where you can
we listen to, you know, whatever music and it's just not going to hit you, but some music that you
have might have a core thought about. Now, does this go back and negate my earlier point that
music doesn't affect my mindset? Does that do it? Right? Now I'm going back on what I said,
because I said, oh, music doesn't affect your mindset. I guess I am going back on that. Well,
yeah, but ultimately, I think I think really it holds up where you, you look, because here's my deal.
Here's the deal. You're going into a stressful combat situation and you didn't get a chance to
listen to your song. Can you afford to be like, oh, no, I can't go. No, so that's another reason. Why,
yes, I'm staying with my original point. Yeah, I agree with you. Stick with that. Don't let anyone
sway you. Don't let them steal their original by a technicality, though.
Jocco. Is this question number five now? Yep. Can you speak about winning it
and when it's best to just go for it and when making a plan without time, do so is the best course?
Okay. Yeah, I can definitely talk about that. Well, winning it is never the first choice.
And when you see people in the, you know, in the seal teams or in the military,
if they're winning something, it's something that they've practiced a lot. If it's something
that they have planned broadly before and they've so much experience in that whatever that type of
operation that they can actually get away with it, right? And a good example, if you take a Jiu-Jitsu
example, like Dean Dean Lister, he can win it in a match. Jeff Glover can do that to a ridiculous level
of just winning it in competition and just show up and just do what he does because he's got, you know,
those guys at that high level have a mental fluidity that's going to be very helpful for them.
Now, there's other people that are very high level, Jiu-Jitsu players that don't win it,
that are very much more methodical. And I'm sure there's some cases with both Jeff and Dean
where they probably should have been more methodical. But I mean, Jeff is straight up suicidal
in many of his matches. I mean, and that's what's beautiful is, is that he moves so much so rapidly
that people can't hang with them on that level in most cases. So that's why he's, he's
winning it. Like every movement that he makes is winning it, but case and point, he's put himself
in those situations all the time. You come to the gym and watch him train, he's letting people
put him in the worst possible situations and figure it away out of it. So the reason he can
win it in the competitions because he's he's put in practice and discipline there in the background.
And if you saw my, you'll, you'll, you'll tune or task unit, we could win it on operations all the
time because we were prepared because we knew each other so well because we had standard operating
procedures that covered so much of the things that would happen during an operation where we would
be quote unquote winning it. So even though we're winning it, we're not really winning it because
we all all these standard, standard operating procedures in place that we didn't really need to plan.
But if you have time to plan, then of course plan do do as much planning as you can,
dig in and plan every detail that you can plan. Now, when it does come to planning, I think the most
important part of a plan, the thing that makes a plan the most effective is its flexibility
and making a plan that is so flexible that when you do the actual operation and you come up against
unexpected things which are absolutely going to happen, you have the flexibility, you have
options, you have contingency plans to deal with. Now, so plan as much as you can, but the problem is
with all that emphasis on planning, sometimes people become obsessed with planning.
And they plan and they plan and they plan to plan to plan and they plan to plan and they don't want
to execute and if they do execute, they execute late, they miss their opportunity. So that's why
that's why Pat and said I got this note written down here, Pat and said a good plan,
violently executed now is better than a perfect plan executed next week, right? That's what
we're talking about. Come up with a good plan. Don't come up with a perfect plan that takes you
two weeks to come up with. That's not going to help you. That's something you need to
keep in the front of your mind. And that is especially applicable in a
tactical decision that's being made in the field, right? Something that is unfolding. You see
the enemy maneuvering, you come up with a quick plan and you execute because every minute that you're
waiting to execute, the enemy is maneuvering on you. That that low in enemy fire, that's not
them retreating and running away. No, your mindset has to be that that's them maneuvering on you.
They're getting a better position. They're setting up getting ready to crush you so don't let
that happen. Make a plan and go and that comes back again to flexibility. If you come up with a good
plan and you go as that plan is being executed, you've got to pay attention. You've got to pay attention
and watch how it's unfolding. Don't put the blinders on and you've got your plan and now we're
going to go and we're not going to look around anymore. We're just going to follow the plan. No,
you have to be observant. You have to observe or you decide to act the whole time. You can't just
come up with a plan and stay on that track because when you come up with a fast plan, you're not
going to have thought about every single detail and you don't know what the enemy is going to do
anyways. You don't know what your competitor is going to do. You can't guarantee that. So when you see them
start to react to your what you executed, now you got to be ready to react yourself and get the
off the upper hand and take the offensive. So there's one more, there's one more little dichotomy to this
and I'll just say it. Even though I'm saying you've got to adapt your plan and you need to adjust
as things happen, you also want to stick to your plan. Those things are completely opposite of each other.
Right? I'm saying adapt and change your plan as needed, but I'm also telling you to stick to your plan.
But for instance, if you rehearsed a or if you have a standard operating procedure for your
order of patrol. So this is the order of the point man and it's it's Jones and then Smith
and then Washington and then Jefferson and that's your order patrol. Right? And those guys are always
marching in that order and so we know each other, we know how to work together, we have fire team
integrity, we have a standard operating procedure and we're going to attack a target. And when we
get closer to the target, we see that hey, you know what, maybe be better to move this guy over here
and move this guy over here and so let's change our standard order of March, our standard
patroling order because it'll it'll be easier when we get to the target. Don't do that. Don't do that.
You have your standard operating procedures for a reason. You have them and when you start
pulling yourself out of the standard operating procedures for no good reason. That's going to
come back and bite you. It's it's not going to work out good. So be flexible. This is going to
be an interesting statement. Be flexible, but stick to the plan, but be ready to do a just,
but stick to the plan. And that's totally contradictory. And I know that and I apologize,
but that is what leadership is. Leadership is balancing those dichotomies and leadership is knowing
when hey, we stayed with our standard operating procedure. We're going to hold through it through
this little thing right here. You know, there's been a little small terrain feature. We didn't
expect we could change our plan right now and adapt to that in an unlikely event that or the
small chance that something happens and will be better for at that moment. No, stay with your
standard operating procedure. But then when something dramatic happens and you need to make a change,
you do it aggressively, you do it dynamically. And then you continue to observe,
orientate, decide and act and stick, keep beating the enemy inside the Udalupe.
That's it.
Yeah. Next question.
Jockel. Yes.
An echo. B. JJ X partner is training in another gym. Now my head coach banned him from coming back.
Yeah. Question. So dojo loyalty versus freedom. Okay. What up?
So there is some tradition behind this actually. And the tradition is actually the
tradition of the crayon. So crayonchi is a Brazilian word and it's a name. Right? It's a name
from a character in a Brazilian soap opera. You're looking at me like you didn't know that. Did you know
this? I didn't know that. Oh, you didn't know this. I know crayonchi. Of course, everyone knows crayonchi.
Yeah. Jockel. crayonchi came from it's a character in a Brazilian soap opera that was like a
backstabber. Oh, I think. Look an unloyal guy. Right? And so when especially back in the early days
for me in Jockel, which was pretty early days in America for Jockel in the 90s,
if anyone was going from gym to gym or even left a gym permanently to go to another gym,
they were labeled this horrible word. It was the worst thing you could call somebody. Right?
Was a crayonchi. Okay. Yeah, this guy's a crayonchi. And that meant that they were a traitor.
Yeah. That's what it meant. And there's also, so that's there's a tradition of it in Jiu Jitsu,
right? Of this idea that if you change gyms or you train at a different place, you're a crayonchi.
Now, there's a little backlash against that. There's people that have, you know,
matter of fact, we used to joke about being like teen crayons. You know, training at different
places and trying to find the best places to train. But there's beyond that, there's a martial arts
kind of tradition as well, which is loyalty and gratitude to your instructor. Right? That's a
fairly understood tradition, not just in the martial arts, but in any arena where you're
learning something from somebody that's putting their time and effort into you to instruct you
in something. And there's also a practical level of reasoning behind this. And that is
competition. Yeah. Right? So if you're going to be competing and you compete with a guy at
your gym, that's got an unbelievable triangle. And then somebody else comes from another school
and they are basically rolling that guy and they see he's got a really good triangle. Now you're
in a competition against that guy and he tells his buddy, hey, that guy, you're going to compete against
he has a really good triangle. Watch out for his triangle. That can change the outcome of a match.
Yeah, you know, the details of it. That can change the outcome of a match. So
there's a practical level to it. You know, there's also sharing moves, right? And if certain
schools might have a really good series of moves or moves and all of a sudden someone goes to,
you know, train somewhere else. They can share that move. And that's bad. And you know,
what's interesting is in every business, most businesses that I work with, I should say,
they have their own little worlds, right? And they have their own kind of loyalty and
crayon, and if you, if you're at, you pick an industry, people are good in that industry.
When they change companies, they bring with them the same kind of thing. They bring maybe
some secret sauce, maybe some moves, maybe they know some personalities. They know the
weakness of that other company. So when they leave, there's a loyalty factor that comes into it.
Now that being said, loyalty goes both ways. And I've talked about this before the student should be
loyal, right? But the teacher has to be loyal as well. That means they have to be teaching solid
stuff. That means they need to, you know, train correctly. That means they need to offer enough
classes. There's all kinds of things, right? They're the teacher owes some loyalty to the students.
And on top of that, on top of that, this is America. Right? This is America. And in America,
you pay to go to a school, you pay money, right? It cost you money. And I always use this example
when people ask me about this in America, just because you normally get your pizza from Domino's,
doesn't mean that if you feel like you can't call up little scissors and have some coming
because it's America. And if, and if, guess what, if little scissors makes a better pizza,
you're going to maybe order even more often. So it's there's competition, right? And you want
to end up where you get in the best pizza. And so there's some advantages to looking for that
good pizza. There's, there's, and there's some advantages to travel around and good training at
different places because you're going to get different schools with different instructors that
have different specialties and different styles. So that can be advantageous. There's also some
disadvantages to school, going to a bunch of different schools. Number one is your teacher doesn't
really know you. So now your teacher doesn't know your style, doesn't know what moves would be good for you.
They also don't see you progress because you're only coming back every once in a while or whatever.
They don't, they don't see you getting any better and they're not, they're not really
maybe as comfortable teaching you everything. Because you're not really their student. And you
know what, man, it is a, it's a, it's a powerful thing to teach someone to teach you. And then
and it's an effort. And there's an emotional component to it when you teach somebody to
teach you. There's an emotional thing. You're giving them something. Yeah. And there's an emotional
level in there somewhere that says, you know what, I'm giving you this. Not going to hold it over your
head, but you know, there's a little something there. You, I'm not going to say you owe me anything,
but you owe me a little something. Wait, wait, like, like, like, like, so I taught you this. So now
you need to go and not mess it up or you got to represent or is it like, don't use this to, I don't know,
I think it's a little bit of both of, you know, I'm investing all this in you, right? Sure,
you're giving me a hundred bucks a month. But what I'm giving you is worth more than a hundred
bucks a month, like we know that, right? So give me something back. What do I want back?
I want you to train with me. You know what I mean? Just, hey, you're going to go to another school
and you're going to train there sometimes. I understand that. But oh, wait a second. Now I'm
just your part-time teacher. Okay. Well, I'm not going to invest very much in you anymore.
Right. Yeah. So there's an emotional component to it. Now again, back to the advantages,
because there's a dichotomy of everything, right? You're wrong with different people at different
schools. Like I say, one thing that's nice about our schools, we got, we got different instructors
with different styles. I mean, between Dean and Jeff, they are literally at the opposite of the
spectrum, which is freaking awesome to have. They are the opposite of the spectrum of the
Gigi-Jitsu skill set, right? They're just crazy different. They almost don't look like they're
doing the same sport. And when I train with both of them, I don't feel like I'm doing the same
sport. It's just a different, it's just a totally different game. But then you got James
Nielsen, who's got his own style, Gigi-Jitsu, which is insane. Greg train, obviously. You got him
coming in hot. Who might miss an atom? He's teaching his own little different style. Who else? Jeff
Jeff Rial, Jeff Rial's got his badass game fast. Me, I don't know what, I don't teach myself,
but I'm sure that there's a different element there. Yeah, but you could coach up and stuff.
Like people learn from me. I know I, like a lot of stuff I learned from you, you know, and like
you're like a two, two-litch, whatever. You know, like you train with Jeff all the time,
you're going to learn some real creative dynamic stuff. You learn from Dean, you're going to
learn a lot of stuff like in, you know, in that way. So, so I think a lot of people still, even
that you're in that structure, they do learn a lot from you. Yeah, and I do teach from time to time,
but yes, I do and I do when I teach a lot of times when I am teaching, I might not be teaching the
glass, but I'm saying hey buddy, check this out. Yeah, put your hips over here, you know what?
So, so those are advantages. You know, for, and if you were at a school with one instructor,
yeah, then I could see where you'd be going, man. Okay, there could be an advantage if I go
try some other instructors. Again, there's a trade-off because now, now you start learning
something, I actually see this more with striking, with striking training, where guys that move
around from different coach different striking instructors a lot, they don't, it's not like
jiu-jitsu, where you can incorporate it in and you learn something from some other guy,
you bring it into your game and you change a little bit. When I see people move striking coaches
a lot, I see their game actually deteriorate in my opinion, because striking is more instinctive.
It's an instinctive thing, right? You're throwing your combos and you let them go. Like you let
your combos go and you react, it's, it's just something that happens. It's more mechanical. So,
when you train mechanically to react and to throw your combos the way you're throwing them,
and then all of a sudden you change that and you want to throw them a different way,
I think it trips people up. I think it sets them backwards a little bit. Whereas,
you're just so you can incorporate new games, different parts of games more fluidly.
And also striking when you're training, striking, you're just to show you learn moves from
the instructor, you learn some timing stuff, but it's like instruction, but then you have to
train with a multitude, like all your training murders, and that's part of your training.
So, if you go striking, it's not really like that. In fact, most strikers, they'll stick with
the one coach and then they'll have a multitude of sparring partners. Yes, that changes.
And you do to just buy it so nature is already like that. Yeah. When you
sparring in other people striking, though, your fundamental movements, they'll change a lot less
than they will when you're rolling, which is a different bunch of different people.
Yeah, you're just striking as linear. Yeah, and you're just too completely not linear.
So, therefore, when you're training something that's linear and you start going off that line,
it trips you up in my opinion. But would you do it, too? It can be beneficial at times to
train with some other people, advantages and disadvantages. So,
I guess to get to this question, long-winded answer. One, you know,
what is it? The head coach banned him from coming back. That's a bummer. That's a bummer.
I'm sorry to hear that. I've never banned anyone from our school for going and training in another
school. I'm not intimidated by that. Right? If someone goes, hey, I'm going to go train at
this on the school. I'm like, cool. And they come back because they get there and they go, okay,
this is cool, but I'm going to come back to where we get this training that we have a victory, right?
Which I'm comfortable with. And if someone goes somewhere and goes, oh, I like this place better than
victory, that's cool. Good luck. I mean, it's all, and, you know, in a year, they come back and go,
yeah, I'm coming back, you know? I don't get mad at them because everyone's on their own journey.
I guess you could say everyone's fine in their own path. And I'm not going to force people down a path.
I might recommend a path, you know? I might say, you know, and I do that. You know, that's what
this is we have the gym for. It's like, here's a path, man. And it's wide open. It's a beautiful path
with incredible jujitsu practitioners. So I don't, I'm kind of bummed out to hear, you know,
that that happens, but I do understand. I think that's what if I was, if I were in that position,
where I'm at a school and my training partner leaves, and then he gets banned, that I don't like that.
I don't like that. Yeah. I think it's a bummer. Yeah, I think Saturai grew. And here,
everywhere is kind of different. Here is kind of a situation here in Southern California.
God, especially in the same day. In the same day. In the same day. In the same day. Yeah, we got the
jujitsu everywhere. Everywhere. Yes. So, and it's literally on every street corner in some games.
You can literally walk comfortably comfortably. It's like, what, one block to the next one. And it's
a good one too. That's the thing. Yeah. But it just goes everywhere. I'm sorry for those of you that live
in the non-jujitsu in the parks of the world. I'm sorry. We have a lot of jujitsu here in San Diego.
Yeah. We have like, our gym and Southern California in general, Orange County, LA is crazy. Yeah.
So you figure in San Diego what's going to kind of be a result of that is like,
all right, situation for example. We have Dean who's kind of the the main guy who kind of
came in with the school, right? Remember Dean had the small kind of school to the boxing club,
came to throw down is what it was called, became victory. But with Dean was like a bunch of guys like
for you, Elias, James Nils, Nilsin, some other guys from Fabio, Sanctose. And we all trained together.
Elias was in shock. They're like, all these guys. And then some guys went and opened their own school.
Now, so not as a result of that whole situation. Sure, we have other schools, but they're kind of
still aren't guys in a weird way. They're different. So if I go train with Elias, which I
Johnny Furio, another one, you and my instructor for a little while, I'll go train with Johnny.
Sometimes. And then is that a, is that a fantasy situation? No. Yeah. I mean, even technically is that a
crowned situation. Oh, you're asking me technically. I would say, I would say this back 10 years ago.
Yeah. That would be a major crowned situation. Is it right now for me? No. Good. You know,
I want you to get better at your jiu-jitsu. Right. You know, and if if you got an opportunity to go,
you're going to retrain at another school. That's cool. Yeah. Because it's, it's going to make you
better. It doesn't, it doesn't offend me. You know what? I'm not a jealous husband. Right. I'm not jealous
of of that. I don't think, oh, what if he goes and never come, I know you. I know where it's at. Right.
And in, and so it's all good. You know, who I'm coming home to? That's right. That's right.
Well, I think the culture just in general is shifting. And I think this is this, like in
Southern California, it's going to be more like this, like, when we're laid back. Of course,
you get, you know, little, little tiny, little groups of people who still believe that, even though,
but the really the communities like that, in fact, if you consider studio 540, that's a
Korean-chik-jinim. Yes, it actually is. It's like, it is what we call the Korean-chik-jinim. Yeah,
capital. All the way down to the instructors, no, Fabio Santos to teach their one day. Fabio Santos
has his own gym, by the way. Arizona, yeah. By the way, same thing with the gigs, I call
these are guys who came from other academies. And they invite whoever, and they actually have other
kind of other academy. You know, yeah, you can go, well, I visit all the time, you know, everyone knows each other.
So, yeah, the culture is different. And I think I think with our gym, it's not as, uh, not as
pronounced as that, but we definitely, I mean, people come in every day from, we're all over. You know,
how many daydives were represented today for Open Matt? There was guys from all over San Diego.
Guys from all over the country. Victor, showing up from Seattle, Trooper, want to get his game on,
right on, you know? I've been telling Mary, yeah, that's right. These go. These mode up there.
Yeah, he was good. And that's the cool thing. You said it Dean said it. He said, I encourage you to go to other gyms.
Or, I mean, not to be some weird spy. But he said, bro, if you want to go get training,
because I was going up to Eddie Bravillus. This was a long time ago when he was at, uh, like,
legends. And I was going up there for work, whatever. And, you know, I knew about that. Or it's like,
oh, is that kind of backstabbing if I go train? You didn't tell me that you were doing that.
Actually, I did. It wasn't about Eddie Bravillus, but it was about something else. I did tell you.
And he said the same thing. He was like, bro, you get as much training as you can.
Yeah. You know, if you want to, if you want to be a part of this association academy and whatever,
then that's up to you. And I'm glad you're here, whatever. And I don't think personally that you're going to do it.
But probably you're here to learn jujitsu. Yeah. And if you can learn some jujitsu over there,
like more of a certain type, then you can't hear or anywhere fine. Go do it. Yeah. He said the more
jujitsu you learn the better. So I was like Dean. Good. Good from Dean Lister right there. Yeah.
The more jujitsu you learn the better. Yeah. And then so even the kind of goal above and beyond that is
when you okay, you know what I got to interject here is especially for some of these academies out there.
Men jujitsu. It's like you're a doctor because you went through 10 years of school to get your black belt.
Just like a doctor was. And what sucks is when you're a doctor, you make X amount of money.
It's a very steady paycheck and you're kind of set. Jitsu doesn't mean anything. That black belt that
you worked 10 years for doesn't get you paid. So the reason I'm saying this is some of the people that
are more defensive about this. If they're an instructor, they have a small academy. They need
they you're financially supporting them. They weren't hard to do that. They've invested in you.
They counting on you. So when you just go, oh, you know, I'm going to go train somewhere else. That
that not only does it hurt them emotionally like I said. Because man, when you put some effort into
somebody, you feel like, oh, you're going to leave after I gave you all that. And you didn't give it
to them because you they paid, but you gave them the value that you get out of Jitsu is not worth
$100 a month. It's worth $1,000 a month. It's worth a ton of money. Killing put that on his
on on some social media post that he because he got his black belt. You and when he did he's like,
well, you're rich when you got something that money can't buy. And that's the truth, right? And
but that black belt doesn't get you any money. It doesn't mean anything. So there's another
component to this whole thing that if you're leaving and going to different schools and someone's
thinking, oh man, I'm going to lose, you know, this is how I feed my there's you know, Jitsu is
you want to become a Jitsu instructor. You're generally not going to become a rich person, right?
Not financially rich. So there's that component too. Now luckily, we have a big gym and it's a little
easier for guys to come and go. It's okay. You know, we're not sweating it as bad. And yeah,
so you got to keep that mind as well that your your coach that's poured more than what you've paid
him. Yeah, because I don't just want to say, hey, look, I'm paying for this instruction. So you
owe it to me and I'll go do whatever I want. That's too base of a statement to make. You're truly
Jitsu has more value than the hundred dollars a month. Yeah, you're paying for it. Yeah, and you really
as a quote unquote customer or member, I mean, I was there, they're sure there's exceptions
this, but generally you don't want that anyway, even if you think you do like I can be free to
come and go and technically you are free to come and go as you as you are, but don't think that
like everyone's going to be just hundred percent fine with it all the time because when when you
when you come in like I said like it's a kind of a two way street, you are hopefully I hope my coach
takes pride in what he taught me first. I hope my coach is like I care about how good you become,
for sure. I hope he's not that I who said give me the check, I'll teach my moves and who cares
about how good you get and I don't want that guy. You don't want that guy. Yep. So there is that and
and so that makes sense is it is that too ish street, but as a competitor or practitioner
guy learning, so that's a student, especially when you reach a certain level and you've been training
with kind of the same even like 20, 25 guys will say you've been training with these same 20,
which is a lot of guys by the way, don't we strain with you've been training with them for I don't
know whatever eight years we'll say. And then you go to another gym man that's a way different look.
So it's like fresh brand new types of training. Oh it's like you're almost going to competition,
but you're not competing because when you compete you get to go against people you've never
trained with before. Yeah, different guys and that's aside from even the different
techniques. You know what I find when I go in those situations when I train with somebody that
doesn't that don't train with all the time? You feel a lot better at your jitsu because they don't
know your game and you know everyone's got their own little special thing. So I always feel like
a little bit better when I go. Yeah see and that's part of my point where if you train with 25
guys those 25 guys they know your game and not to say it's not good training but they know your
game so it may not be as accurate as far as like competition or something like that after a while.
So when you go to these new places you get that's an additional layer of training you get. Yeah
you know another subject on this is it kind of always bummed me out when I would hear from my
jitsu friends that have we've been in San Diego for 20 something years and all of a sudden be like
oh we can't come to your school because our instructor doesn't want us to and our health is
be like bro. So so that's like I wouldn't tell somebody that. I'm not trying to control people
and it bumps me out. So that actually brings up another subject that I feel like I have to talk
about because we got a lot of people out there that are starting jiu-jitsu for the first time.
A lot of troopers that are getting in the jiu-jitsu game which is awesome. It's awesome and I get a
lot of people saying oh what school should I train at in wherever throw a dart at a map in America
and that's what they're asking me about. First of all I don't know all those instructors now
generally you know somebody that does jiu-jitsu will look at a website and see what a guy's credentials
are and say yeah that guy looks like a legit black belt or legit brown belt or even a guy asked me
their day is it worth learning from a purple belt if there's no one else around him like absolutely
absolutely. So but people ask me about these schools and I kind of give them my best guess like
you know I'll take a look at the website and you know see if there's a black belt you don't need to
ask me by the way Google look at their record make sure that they do Brazilian jiu-jitsu not some
other form of jiu-jitsu just just you can figure it out you don't need you can go to the school
and assess but what I want the main point that I wanted to bring up isn't that it's just this part here
is that being into jiu-jitsu doesn't mean that a person is a good person and being a black belt
in jiu-jitsu doesn't have anything to do with their character as a person and I hate to say that
and there is a level of to get to be a black belt in jiu-jitsu sure you could say in general it means
you're a committed person in general it means you're a hardworking person in general it means
that you've been humbled by your experiences on the map in general but it is no way a fact and
there are people in the jiu-jitsu game that are swindlers and thieves and they're untrustworthy
and there's black belts in jiu-jitsu that can be bullies and there's people in jiu-jitsu that can be
predators and you know jiu-jitsu it's a power and sometimes people that are power hungry
recognize that power and they pursue the gaining of jiu-jitsu power and then they abuse that power
so like any abusive situation where one person has a perceived power over another person it can
get very ugly and there's all kinds of abuses that I've seen take place over the years in a
jiu-jitsu world financial abuses physical abuse and even sexual abuse so I just wanted to
get that out there that being a jiu-jitsu black belt brown belt purple belt blue belt white
belt doesn't make someone a good person so you need to be careful jiu-jitsu doesn't make you
god and it certainly doesn't make you a saint but it does give you power and everybody has to recognize
that there's people out there that are their goal is to abuse power and I think the same thing goes
with any glorified position in life you know and I actually see that sometimes with you know
a standing in a company a being a veteran like being a veteran doesn't mean that you're a saint
by any stretch the imagination being a seal right I know a lot of seals there's plenty of seals
they got out of the suit teams and they're upstanding awesome citizens but there's also
scoundrels and miscreants and swindlers like I said and they're using the seal name that they have
to promote themselves and to take advantage of other people so keep your guard up keep your guard up
and make sure you judge people not based on what jiu-jitsu belt they have or what veteran status it is
that they brag about but who they are as a person and I just wanted to get that out there
because we sit here and talk about jiu-jitsu and there's so many great people in jiu-jitsu men it's
wonderful you roll into some say you see somebody with cauliflower ears and you start talking
to him it's great and you you know there's just a bunch of great people I mean we're on the
mat today for two hours you know and we train for hour and fifteen minutes and they were just hanging
out just talking because that's what we do and we're talking about everything and it's so there's
great people in jiu-jitsu it's a great family situation but you do have to be careful it is not a blanket
blanket statement that's because someone's a jiu-jitsu black belt for instance that they are
out trustworthy person because there's some scumbags out there yeah and in that that can and the fact
that and I talked to Brady about this everyone's somewhere you go in jiu-jitsu and it seems like
everyone just identifies with each other and later on you find out oh shoot that guy's like a lawyer and
that guy's a doctor or that guy's like a different really nice guy's a woman and that guy's a
whatever and this person's from this area and we all to get along on it. Yep everyone gets along
in the black belt he has so much like he's on board like for the most part it's pretty pretty
everyone's really good in jiu-jitsu for the most part right and that's why you can kind of especially
if you're kind of new or maybe like the first year or something like that where you're going around
and dang my whole year of jiu-jitsu has been great people come on the mat and they're oh my gosh
she's all my new friends that's a big one man all my new friends is so cool and I got this whole
thing it's like it's your whole life is better and then so your guard is down in the in a
calm it's like a conditioning way you're just like hey if you're in jiu-jitsu you must be dope
in every way and then you get these like outliers that they're in the game you know and they
and they take advantage like they're where they can you know and some do but yeah you got to
you got to always kind of watch out for that guy yeah so just if your spider senses are going up
or first of all turn them on yeah turn them on turn them on and if they go up start to
maybe ask more questions and you are and don't get yourself in a situation where you know
you're going to regret what's going on because you believed that someone was a good person because
they had some status that you considered to be an honorable status you know hate to say it man I hate
to I hate to have to uh kind of bring that bring all that all that jiu-jitsu down in this you know
there's and it I'll tell you something else there's aspects of jiu-jitsu where people lose their minds
right they get crazy and you know some of it you know with the whole school thing we just talked about
where people start going crazy about who owns students right now like you know like I'm on
own any students yeah I'm happy to have people that train at my gym and I'm happy to work with them
and train them well I don't know own anybody right and there's people that get that crazy
there's people that get crazy parents that go psycho on their kids and go level seven you know
um living vicariously through their kids and push their kids till their kids hate jiu-jitsu
yeah and I'll tell you I push my kids too hard when they were younger for sure that's looking back
you know if it's the big parenting advice from jockel man I push my kids too hard I made him
compete too much made him compete in harder brackets older kids have your kids all the time
and it made jiu-jitsu not fun you know but I didn't break them mentally from that
so you gotta be careful that you gotta be careful of the whole um you gotta be careful of jiu-jitsu is a
power and it's really easy to get suckered into the point where you feel like you should
exercise your power over other people um on the mats or otherwise you know if you if you ever
go into the gym and it's making you feel really good to tap everyone out like you're feeling
better than them just just start to check yourself man because that's not that's not helping you
because there's someone out there that's can tap you there's someone else and if you're
taking those abusive out on other people so again to be genders in jiu-jitsu you're gonna get
tapped out you're gonna get tapped out a lot but there shouldn't be anyone that is smashing
you and abusing you that's a much higher belt than you right you know another white belt might not
even get that yet they're just happy they're submitting you right but when you want that's been
around a little bit more they should be you you should feel like hey that guy just he didn't abuse
me yeah she didn't abuse me she just beat me and I know what happened and it's cool yeah and
even that that's what kind of weird and interesting too where abuse can come in weird different
forms too you know like if because there's a difference in okay so like Jeff Glover for example
if you if Jeff Glover is because he has fun when he rolls that's a big part of his his game
and let's say oh I'm a new white belt maybe you know and I come and roll against Jeff
Glover and heat and let's let's say it's a I don't know six minute round and just in training and
Jeff taps him out 25 times that's not that's not abuse you know you just need to do
some missions hold on you he's doing his thing or whatever if someone's like grinding you and
doing you know abusing you or trying to make you look stupid or something like that
because like oh yeah I know you just see you don't kind of thing or maybe there's some girls
that he's trying to press then that starts to get into abuse but don't ever watch me in being
roll because one of us is having a good day and the other one's having a bad day it's straight up
abuse but that's you in being and and you'll notice that if you when you establish like
solid training partners right that becomes part of the game I'm gonna try to abuse you and so
that's different that's what I mean by so different like dynamic as far as like
recognizing what abuse is because if you get tapped out 25 times and it seems like dang you didn't
have to like go black belt on him he's a white belt well yeah he went black belt on him but he
wasn't abusing on you know I mean that's like that that's well within the confines of the game for
show for sure there's a big difference between that I know this to translate this for people
I don't do jiu-jitsu yet think about also this with any status structure right in the work
in the military in in the hierarchy of any company or industry where if you're feeling good
about bossing people around yeah you're doing something wrong man you're doing something wrong
if you're goal of what you're doing is based on you if you're saying look I'm gonna be the best
and I'm gonna be this is what's important to me yeah if that's what you're saying is a leader
put yourself in check because that's just pure ego coming out when you're saying look I want to be the
best in this and I think there's a weird thing that happens with people that are go getters and they
hear someone that's a go getter they'll hear some person that's been successful in business and
that person that's been successful in business will be like you know what I said I was gonna be the
best and here I am on the best and you've got to set your goals you've got to put them out there
and you've got to let everyone know that you're gonna run them over if you're getting your way
and that sounds really cool and and I guarantee if you went back and you followed that person
through their career they were not like that they were they were politically sensitive they
understood other people's needs they didn't go hey nice to meet you I'm gonna take over this
business no they didn't do that they said hey nice to meet you how you doing what are
we trying to make happen here they made it a goal for the team even if the deep underlying goal
is a is a selfish one let's say the outer goal should not be that it should not be hey
I'm gonna be the best I'm gonna be the ruler of this company I'm gonna be no we don't want to hear
that like when you you know you just take all I want to be the president of the United States
who wants that person to be president of the United States and I sure don't I don't want that
person in the president of the United States if someone says I'm gonna be the CEO of this company
now what do you think of that you think okay so this person's ego is really really big
and you think yourself you know what that I don't like that you need to put that so if that's
your attitude and you think you're being fired up keep that goal internal don't be announcing
that goal you know such state your goals and let the world know you're here no
goal because you sound like an ego maniac what you should say is like you know what I want to do
with this company I want to help this company grow the best I can and you know what's important to
be about being in a leadership position what's important to me about being in a leadership position
is making sure that the people underneath me they get better and they reach their goals this isn't
about me this is about the people that are on my team and I want to make them successful now who
wants to work for that person I do sign me up but when I say hey boss night to nice to meet you what
you're you know what what your goal here at the company my goal is to be CEO yeah to be the boss so
you're gonna step on my back to get there sounds like fun don't sign me up for that guy now I don't
want to work with that person I want to work with somebody that's about the team and I don't want
to work with somebody that's gonna be abusive just like I don't want to train anybody's
GJ2 Academy that's gonna have that abusive mentality and they're out there so I wanted to tie that
back into the business world I'm the instructor I'm the instructor I'm the instructor I'm your instructor
you don't go no it's like a Napoleon Dynamite you know about your sensei right they they make fun of that
and it's funny and and there's I'm not seeing there's anything wrong with that there's a lot of
tradition in GJ2 as well you know you bow to your instructor you bow when you come on and off the
map yeah that's not super into that stuff you know what I mean I'm laid back you know I'm pretty
laid back when it comes to the GJ2 traditions yeah most of the bowing to the instructor in GJ2 is
more like it's like bow to GJ2 almost like and that bow like bow down it's more it's like show
respect like if you go to even more traditional schools even when Marango was teaching at our
school you know you bow to all the instructors because they're the ones providing the GJ2 and then
you bow to Helio Gracie because he's the one who kind of provide you know so it's more about
that you GJ2 yeah yeah not like bow to your shins it doesn't have that feel and you're going to
make sure that you're not getting that crossover where it goes from hey bow to GJ2 and play
pay respect to a beautiful thing to bow to me yes and it's the same thing in the business world
if you're saying look there's nothing wrong with treating your CEO with respect and your CEO
should be treated with respect or your boss you treat your boss with respect absolutely
like hey boss what do you need me to do hey hey sir in the military you know you call those senior
officers sir there's there's there's nothing you shouldn't feel degraded by doing that but
if for instance in the military if it's like hey you call me sir you know okay I see what I'm
dealing with here in the in the business world if people are you know if you as an individual
are thinking you better show me the respect I deserve you got issues you got issues you got
issues you got to earn that respect if someone's not giving you respect don't don't look at them
and demand it yeah look at yourself and demand that you become a better leader where they give
you the respect not because you asked for it but because you deserved it yeah there's a big difference
that's funny man give me the respect I deserve give me the respect I most of the time most
Donald time most of them one someone says give me the respect I deserve it's when they are
being given the respect that these are which is probably not most of the time when people are
being saying give me the respect I deserve they don't deserve the respect they're asking for
they need to get their head together also where we got time for one more that's one
juggle I had had a few rough months some setbacks at work that hurt me financially which
is stressed out my family I'm late on some payments I'm falling further behind at work
I don't want to tap out but I just don't know where to start
well you know what that's that's just kind of the way that
life works sometimes it's it's Murphy's law when things go wrong they always seem to happen
at once and they just compound on top of each other and it's it's pretty easy sometimes to
to feel beaten when you're faced with all those issues and all those problems and they all hit you
at the same time but let me tell you that that doesn't mean give up in fact it means the opposite
it means it's time for you to fight harder to dig in means it's time for you to go on the war path
and that starts with one of the fundamental laws of combat leadership prioritize next
acute what's the biggest problem well what's causing the most stress family okay
sit them down explain where you are at be blunt be upfront and then give them the simple plan of
how you're going to get things back on track don't sugar code it you give it to them straight
next you got some some late payments call those creditors up explain to them what's going on set up
some kind of a of a minimum payment plan so you can start making some progress and get them off
your back and then you got your job right you're following behind at work okay talk to your boss
face it tell him that you're going to step up your game tell him you're going to be at work early
you're going to be at work late you're going to be at work during lunch you're going to be wherever you
need to be whenever he needs you to be there tell him you're going to get after it and tell him
that you're a hundred percent committed to supporting him and the company and the mission
and then you get started and I'm going to tell you right now it won't be easy it will be hard
because life is hard that's what life is and these challenges these challenges that you face
they're going to do their best to take you down do not let them stand up dig in
line up those problems and confront them face them fight them do not let them bring you down
in fact in fact let those challenges raise you up let them elevate you let their demands and their
trials make you stronger let the adversity you face today turn you into a better person tomorrow
so so in the future you look back at these struggles and you're saying to them
thank you you made me better and I think that's all I've got for tonight
so echo let's close it on out how can everyone get on board with the program here
and support the little podcast we got going enforcement not reinforcements yes
so indeed few ways first on top of supporting this podcast you're going to want to support
yourself I think supplementation when I always talk about this I know why not
anyway on it has the best supplements we all know this krill oil got my krill oil in
echo's it again actually I'm saying on it every month anyway so on it on it dot com slash
chocolate 10% off so supplement your wallet as well so the krill oil that's for your joints
warrior bars as well I think down to get on true tech yeah true tech
true tech is kind of okay so victor is talking about he's like I'm on true tech today yeah so tell me
what you think about this so I used to take true tech all the time and be like and I felt
and I felt like it kind of gave me an advantage because you know how cardio conditioning stuff
is the tool in jiu-jitsu or can be if you use it do you think that's an advantage
do I think cardio is an advantage oh so what you think is true tech is like all he took
true tech doesn't go okay I took true tech and tapped out someone who I don't tap up there's
two ways to look at that well that's a true tech is really good true tech did not make you tap
out the first step but indirectly it could have you know okay so I guess I guess the answer
this would be since you were able with true tech to do more it's pushing you harder so you are
stepping up your game overall yeah I'm a lot to train because you can train harder because of your
true tech so it is as far as I'm concerned permissible to do that because you're just trying
to get yourself better and true tech helps you do that yeah now you might have to you know give a
caveat put us little asterisk that's your tap out on the true tech so there's it's like a window
and you say when we got done training I was like you know I didn't take any true tech today
so maybe you know and you were like either yeah okay it was a level playing field you didn't
Steven yeah the it's like when you run the 100 meter dash and the wind the strut there's a strong
wind like you'll you'll get the record but there's a star there as it says wind aided
oh really says wind aided yeah still your record but it's wind aided sir on those yeah they
try to be like so yeah when you when you get your true tech and you set your PR in you know in like
you know a while or something like this you gotta put the star there's like yes no PR but I was on the
true tech yeah maybe maybe you don't have to do that maybe I don't know but you might anyway
nonetheless truem tech sport though there's two this truem tech um the other one it's the truem tech
something else I'm talking about the sport the both of them you yes it's a yeah yeah I'm a
review had to take them you yeah but no that's for general immunity right that's okay the thing
that one probably not a p performance enhancing supplement maybe it is okay in directly anyway
on it uh it's they're from my get 10% off on it dot com slash jockel take the alphabet brain
to think a little better like it makes you think it's proven by the way that's saying all
it's legitimately proven not like the 19% the 19% is pretty legitimately proven
okay so co-miller co-miller you have see fighter Mike best I got an email today got his
rash guard you know you did just start jujitsu like you know a lot of us have been and so emails
me and says I was gonna bring the email and read it it's like short so he's like um he's like hey
man I I tapped up my jujitsu journey quite awesome uh I tapped up my first blue belt today
bang and he said guess what I was wearing he said I'm not gonna attribute it to the rash guard
specifically but let's let's face it it was the rash guard okay so that being said the we there's
some's trooper rash guards on jockel store dot com I read it the website by the way the not
much enough that is just kind of read on nonetheless this rash guards on there they're cool they
improve your performance 19% tech I guess I mean apparently 19 to 35% really that's the range
evidently anyway cool rash guards you can check those out jockel store dot com uh there's some shirts there
too was that you tell me that you saw someone with a shirt on no no Victor Victor was saying oh yeah
Victor Victor was saying saw someone in the eye and that's the thing when we and I said this before
of course so you know if you listen you know that I try to put more than just the one layer on the
shirt it's kind of there's a bunch of inside stuff actually if you talking about the layers on the
shirts it started to become a thing I'm telling no I'm saying because you know why it's starting to
become a thing because it is a thing so you're gonna have to like on some future shirt you're
to actually put the word layers yeah layer one yeah that might be dope either way he was saying how
he recognized the shirt and when you see someone else wearing like you know they know yeah so
it's not like you see a quick silver shirt and it's like hey I wear a shirt there's no pants
you know what I mean it's different it's way different this stuff you you know if you listen you know
you're like oh anyway check mine if you like go grab one you can support that way and force
and and Amazon click through what that it does is anytime you shop on Amazon just click through
on our website docoupotcast.com or the store there's a little section there people can do a lot of
Christmas and holiday shopping yeah so if you really want to get your support on your own as part
game full speed do you think what I like about Amazon it doesn't cost it anybody anything doesn't it's
it just supports the podcast while you're doing your normal stuff so that's awesome and it's appreciated
yeah man it gets I mean the key there really is to remember to click through where you go shop
that's it you know it's a good way to support Amazon so yeah on the website again you just click on the
Amazon link be free to shop it think boom support actively efficiently solid and then of course
subscribe on the iTunes on the iTunes or Stitcher and then some other like Google Play is now yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah that's there's a bunch of those little podcasts
but yeah be a subscriber man in the game straight up right review on the maybe this is I don't
know what this is it's just one of those things we're at like 900 something reviews oh yeah yeah
so of course you're both the gift house yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah so we got a thousand a thousand reviews yeah yeah yeah yeah you mean I know that's what's good
about is it is if you wrote review I read it I've read all the reviews that are on there and it's cool
because it's good feedback and it lets us know that people are listening and that they're in the game
yeah which is cool that is 20 and I want to get to a thousand first no good
I know that the first one, yeah, and there's no reason.
Is that it?
You go?
Or maybe it'll see D or both.
Because you're like, I don't, you know how like when you pump the gas,
you know, and you're like, oh, I'm going to get, if you're not feeling up,
you're like, I'm going to get it right on the $20 market.
Oh, it's like, it's a weird thing.
Anyway, something like that.
You know how like people that celebrate.
Hey, I got to, you know, a thousand subscribers or whatever, you know,
people that are celebrating, they're posting, you like,
like, why didn't you celebrate at like a thousand one or
nine, I think.
I'll see when I get to a thousand.
I won't celebrate anything.
I'll be like, I need to get to 2000.
And it's not even anything I can stop from my own brain thinking.
Just thinks that way.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
So your thing is like different.
Yeah, just like, it's almost like a score.
Like, oh, well, what's my score right now?
Right now it's 923.
Yeah.
I want my score to be a thousand.
Why?
I have no good reason.
And you.
Yeah.
I'm sad.
None of the last subscribe.
Um, that's how you can support and YouTube subscribe to that, you know,
if you're down, if you're into YouTube watching videos,
I'm subscribed to that.
I think I'm going to put out another one here.
Pretty soon.
Yeah.
We are going to put out another one.
We hear that a lot.
I know.
You know, hey, it kind of like the email list, you know,
like, oh, okay, I'll talk about it in a second,
but you know, like the email list, we sign up that the insider's list and
sign up.
And be like, hey, I'll send you, you know, some, we'll send you some stuff.
I'm not going to send you stuff every day.
I'm just kind of like the YouTube.
I'm going to put more videos.
Maybe not every week, but you know, there will be more things to get.
Basically, I'm not there.
Any email on my end.
People are like, hey, Jocco keep making a podcast every week.
I say, it'll go great.
I do.
You're at, you, they tell you, hey, echo can you make some more videos and you're like,
you know what?
They can, they can wait.
No, no.
That's what that's the artist in you.
No, no, that's not the artist right there.
Um, um, yeah, we'll do some more videos.
I'll have a, with that.
We're all sitting here holding our breath.
There, echo Charles for you to make more videos.
See what you're doing.
You're just like, stroke my ego.
Like, we're waiting for your next video.
Whatever.
And I'm like, you guys, they're waiting for me.
I'm gonna put on the video.
Be like, yeah, so I want to, my video guys.
I'm like, no, I'm gonna make it.
Why do you have every, every minute video that you got done,
and you said, I'm not even going to release this thing because it's too bad.
Yes.
I'm a whole series.
Oh, yeah.
Bro, I'm telling you, because when you do this, bro, it's, yeah,
there's like, one of them's called, um,
for people you find on Facebook and like,
Conan's in it.
It's like the people who take pit.
One of them is like, the people who take pictures of, um,
themselves, but they want to act like they're taking a picture of something.
You know, but it's like, um, it's like this thing,
and it just didn't come out good.
Anyway, nonetheless.
Yeah, I am very weary of these things.
Anyway, so yeah, support that way.
Back to the store, jockel store.
Is it a new stuff?
Is it annoying to sit here and talk about like this stuff right here?
Um, no, I don't think so.
I mean, if, if I didn't have Debbie and everyone's saying,
whoo, echo where's the girl stuff?
You know, and they're just like, all right, you know,
like, not saying anything.
This is the thing.
So just so I think about it.
Like, I always think like, okay, we can probably cut this,
you know, hey, let's just run through, you know,
how to support the podcast, you should take three minutes.
For some reason, it turns into a 15 minute conversation.
Yeah.
And I don't, I don't, it's, I never intend to do that.
And then when I listen to it, I actually laugh at most of it.
And I think it's pretty funny.
So I don't know.
Well, we should do like, go to our podcast of us just talking about
how to support the podcast.
Because it might be pretty funny.
Because you're laughing right now.
I was laughing a second ago.
And maybe that'd be the greatest topic ever.
Okay.
So in that regard, I'm not saying this is proof, but this is evidence.
And this happened more than once by the way.
So, you know, that will order a show.
And it's online.
So you can't try on the shirts.
So people will be like, hey, and what's the shirt size is it?
Whatever.
And they'll say, hey, I need a bigger size.
Or, I don't know, I forgot to change my address.
Or something where, you know, they require another shirt.
Yep.
So there it be times that be like, oh, I'll just send it to you.
Like, it got lost in the mail, whatever.
I'll just send it.
So I just send it.
And they're like, no, no, I, I, I didn't, oh, no, no, here.
This is what it was.
And that happened before, but here's the, here's a very specific one I'm thinking about.
Where I sent apparently two shirts.
They got two shirts.
They were supposed to get one.
This supposed to get one.
Yeah.
And they were like, I got two shirts.
I'm keeping them.
Tell me where to pay.
Tell me, like, tell me how I can pay.
Because you can't go and click another, you know, it'll go in the ors.
It's somewhere I can pay.
I was like, ah, keep the shirt.
That's all you.
You know, give it to somebody.
And they're like, I demand to pay.
Like, part of the reason is to support this podcast, you know?
Yeah.
So, and I'm kind of like, dang.
There are enforcements out there who embrace their reinforcing.
That's why that's why I think this is relevant.
Well, yeah, well, I guess my point is, is that when we're talking about this stuff,
what should be a 30 second thing turns into a 15 minute thing.
Like it's happening right now.
And when I listen to the podcast and I'll start going, oh, here come the advertisements.
I got to make a note to say, shorten these down.
And then I say, oh, you know what?
That was actually funny as hell.
So, I don't know.
Maybe I'm just ultra sensitive.
Yeah, maybe just like the ritual thing.
Maybe Doug in.
So what were you saying the store?
Yeah, the store.
So, hey, there's this new stuff.
It's the first time where I'm saying it publicly, but there's hoodies and they're pretty cool.
Apparently that's what people are saying.
You know, Jocos said, so good.
I like them.
Also, I read the patches where they're, you know, how JPE last week said,
Federal dark earth.
Apparently it's flat, darker.
Okay.
Not to be confused with flatter.
People think they're at this point.
Yeah, we don't want Eddie Bravo to get fired up about the other people.
Does he think that?
No.
Is that kind of his conspiracy things that he believes in?
I don't think so now.
He believes in all kinds of crazy conspiracies.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm not going to argue.
Yeah, I'm not going to argue.
He knows.
I don't want to.
I'll talk to Robert Garder about it.
I don't want to talk about nothing else, man.
No.
That's too.
He's got too many facts and figures about stuff.
You know, facts and figures about all kinds of conspiracy stuff that I don't want
to argue with.
Yeah.
I'm going to argue with him being not worth.
I don't want to enter that world.
I'm staying out of that world.
You know why?
Because I guess I'm too blind to see the reality.
Yeah.
You're not worth it.
It's okay.
Almost stay blind.
Okay.
You're all good.
But the flat dark.
There's a color.
So we got it's the fish of one where if you know you're new.
There's three.
Is it two by three?
Two by three.
Okay.
Anyway.
So let's come this far.
It's new stuff on jockelstore.com.
Nice.
So yeah, look at that.
Jockels are to come look at the stuff on there.
If you like it, go grab one.
You can enforce reinforced and support this podcast.
That way.
Which is awesome.
Appreciate it.
You can also get some jockel.
Which I've been drinking liberally all night long.
And I'm feeling pretty good right now.
How do you have some?
Because we're out.
Yeah.
Well, so I got massive quantities.
I actually told our supplier.
I will never.
We will never run out of this again.
How do we make that happen?
And they told me how to make it happen?
So it's going to be back in Amazon directly.
And we will never run out of it again.
That's my whole day.
I learned a lot of it.
Because I didn't know that people were going to be selling to it.
And then I realized.
Because you know, sometimes you're in a bubble.
Yes.
And you think something's really cool.
Yep.
And no one else does.
I have been in that bubble many times in my life where I thought something was really cool.
And then I get outside the bubble and people don't think it's cool.
Bro, my whole life.
So I was under suspicion that this situation, where I like this tea, this random tea.
And then I got it tweet to my specific liking.
And I thought, well, okay, not only have I taken a random thing.
And then I've tweeted to be specifically what I like.
I'm thinking of myself like, what seven people in the world are going to dig this?
Well, what I should have done was taking it and giving it to a bunch of people and said,
Hey, is this what do you think of this?
Because by the time we did that, we basically did that.
And you realize that it tastes really, really good.
It's a unique flavorful taste.
And I think that's like part one is that it tastes really good.
It doesn't taste like anything else.
It's just got a very, it doesn't taste like a juice.
It doesn't taste like a tea.
What does it taste like?
It just tastes like it.
It tastes like what it tastes like.
And it tastes good.
And universally, universally, people go, oh, yeah, that's that tastes great.
It's just a universally good tasting thing.
And then on top of that, you get the micro dose of caffeine.
Just the micro dose.
So it's this thing that just comes in subsurface and just gives it to you.
But it doesn't override your normal senses.
And then on top of that, you got the antioxidant thing, which for all I know,
it's just just repairing and taking care of your body, right?
So you combine all those things together.
And we got something very popular on our hands.
And again, I thought that inside my bubble, I thought it was something inside my bubble.
It was going to be popular.
But now I realize that it's a very, everybody loves the way it tastes.
And everybody loves the way it makes you feel.
So what I got to do is order through the manufacturer, order the ton of it,
and go online.
Yeah, make it enter it.
And you know, some people also said, hey, you know what?
I got to do it.
And it cost a lot because we got a high quality container to put it in.
The tin, as it's known, luxurious, the luxury, the luxury.
You know what it was?
It's Deluxe.
It didn't say luxurious.
I didn't forget to rewind that part.
But the tin cost a lot of money to make.
And so that's what it is.
Well, when people said it was too expensive, I said, oh, okay, cool.
I'm going to put it in a box also. So we got to come in a box.
You can still get it in the tin because you need at least one tin.
Oh, you got to have a purpose tactical.
Multiple purpose tactics.
And you probably need a few of them in your house.
Pens, check, screws and nails, check.
You anti itself, check.
And then you're also also going to be able to buy it in big box with a hundred count in there.
So we're taking care of you on that end.
Yeah.
Again, here I was. All I was wrote down to say was we have Jocca White Tea.
Right?
Unset I talk about it for eight minutes.
What is wrong with me?
You got to.
Well, you know what? I think it's too much Jocca White Tea.
Has got me talking.
You got me mentally engaged at such a level that I didn't even just take it easy.
The ones that have feed that.
Also, we got a book, Extreme Ownership.
It's about combat leadership.
Therefore, it's about all leadership.
Written by myself and my brother, Dave Babin.
And if you buy the audio version, it's read by myself and my brother, Dave Babin.
So you can check that out.
It's also what I am, was on.
Appreciate it.
Following that.
If you happen to want to continue this conversation that we're having right now,
or you just want to get after it on the interwebs.
That's cool.
You can do it.
We are there.
We're on Twitter.
We're on Instagram.
And you know that we's at that fast bookie.
Echo.
Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocco Willing.
And thanks to everybody for listening for joining us as we join you.
Trying to figure out how to get better.
And to my brothers in arms in the military overseas hunting down evil and destroying it.
You all out there stay aggressive and stay ahead of the enemy.
And the police and law enforcement.
Thanks for holding the line and fighting crime and the firefighters.
Of course, thanks for your vigilance and your courage.
Under actual fire.
And the rest of you troopers out there listening.
Honing your skills.
Building buildings.
Creating creations.
Designing designs.
Developing developments.
Working on.
What you are working on.
Thanks for your relentless pursuit of excellence and of growth and of progress.
And most of all.
Thank you for getting after it.
So until next time.
This is Echo and Jocco.
Out.
Thank you.